"Now you know why they call us the Vanguard."

"We?"

"You're here, aren't you?"

"Vanguards have space guns and magic medicine."

He handed her an M40-AR.

"And body armour that works."

"Autumn, we have about thirty minutes before we put down. I think it's time you took the lady shopping."

> _It would be my pleasure._
>
> _Sophia, I'm going to hijack your augs, if you've never experienced full immersion you might want to sit down first._

Sophia sat, and Autumn gave her some privacy by isolating her headset. Faces, however, cannot be isolated. Sophia's gave a new, more pleasant meaning to 'shock and awe'. Fifteen minutes later Autumn announced a spend of 1209 points. Forest nodded. Boxes appeared in Sophia's lap and her whole face lit up as she opened it.

Forest stopped rubbernecking the unboxing when Autumn piped up.

> _What happened to "I want to fly my attack helicopter"?_

"The disappointing thing, Autumn, is that he's more interested in my new toys than watching me undress."

He snorted, because it was true.

Five minutes later, "Come on, tiger, check out the goodies." She put one hand on the top of the bubble and mock twirled. "Supple but shock-stiff, with magnets for weapons and magazines.

"Autumn," he subvocalised, "Why have you dressed her up as Black Widow?"

"What's wrong?" fretted Sophia, "Do I look silly?"

"No, you look hot. Distractingly hot. Think Black Widow. Frankly, I think Autumn did it on purpose."

"Oh, really?" she preened, unconsciously taking a deep breath. She channelled the primness of her inner Karen, bleeding unexpected tension out of the air. Relaxing, she smiled again: "Check this out!" She tossed her head like a shampoo model showing off her mane, and a full-face helmet erupted from the high collar.

He chuckled, "Now you look like Spiderman."

He put them on the ground. Not so deftly as Oleksiy might have, but a far cry from the bouncing roughness of his first tries. Switches flicked as Autumn rattled off shut-down procedures. The turbines spun down and the canopy popped. He put the ladder out and slid down. She followed, a little stiff in her new armour festooned with weapons and magazines that seemed to catch on everything.

"How do you move in this stuff?"

"You get used to it."

They hit the ground but did not run. 

"Has it changed much since last you were here?" Forest threw his battered leather hat in the air and a swarm of bees erupted out of it, spreading as they rose.

"Not that I can see from here."

As the bees built out their tactical map, Autumn simplified it, eliminating irrelevant details and highlighting potential threat locations; thin walls and grates mostly, hedges and other places suited to ambush concealment. The bees found a likely shelter, with crowds of dog-weeds, stego-bears and even two of those centipede digger transport things. 

"Sophia, eyes up. We can bolt back to the Galya, or ask Autumn for an M247H."

"A what?"

"Machine gun. Eyes up!" he pointed as they blotted out the sun.

She did the hair flick thing and her face vanished behind armour.

He chuffed with amusement. "Autumn, an M247H each please, overlapping arcs against that wall under the eave." 

Rather than boxes, they appeared draped under silky grey cloth like sculpture awaiting revelation. Autumn does have a theatrical streak.

Leaning into the moment, Forest took Sophia's hand and led her to them, whisking back a cloth to reveal a spanking new M247H already loaded with belt-fed ammunition from the ammunition box beside it. New brass gleamed its oily promise of mayhem. She placed her hands on the handles as he showed her the safety.

"You're hot!" he said, flicking it off.

"So I'm told."

He rolled his eyes, smiling, and readied his own. Clouds of murder-pigeons hove into focus and they both let fly.

"Short, controlled bursts. You don't want a cook-off."

His visor's active noise-cancelling brought the earsplitting racket down to a dull roar. "Autumn, hearing protection for Sophia?"

> _What do you take me for? It's in the helmet._

"She got a HUD?"

> _Yes?_

"Make sure she has a barrel heat indicator like mine. I don't want to stop shooting to unjam her."

They were faster than he remembered. The hail of fire they through up tore through the oncoming clouds, each round tumbling its gory way through half a dozen of the massed monsters. Mostly this threw them away, but one flew forward, striking his visor and smearing it _red_.

"Interesting. And they smell different too. Now I know why they're faster. These ones are using h&aelig;moglobin."

"Doesn't everything?"

"Antithesis mostly bleed green. I don't know why. It makes no sense to have chlorophyll in blood, it has to be cuproglobin, which is way less efficient."

"Oh," said Sophia, certain her boffins would have tried to tell her this at some point. She wondered what else they might have said that she ought to know in the field.

> _They could also be using myoglobin, which is the same colour as h&aelig;moglobin for all the same phys-chem reasons. But it's not likely; Myoglobin bonds so strongly to oxygen that it works better as a store of oxygen than a transport._

She stalked through the streets with unerring precision, Forest a half step behind. Charging hordes of single digit antithesis, swept aside like chaff before a storm as they took turns rolling swizzle sticks and bongos before them. A centiloader stared dumbly at them, dog-weeds stuffing mangled chickens and half a rottweiler into it.

In lock-step they armed and rolled grenades forward, dropping low to the ground as the fraggers tore off three of its legs. One of the three-eyed mongrels around it flung high and landed beside Sophia with a wet smack. Feebly, it snapped at her but they were on their feet and moving.

At Cantwell street the found the shelter. It was sealed, a good sign. She asked, and Autumn linked them in; surprisingly the commercial networks were still up. Forest tossed her the SPNKr. She caught it with one hand, the suit lending her strength, and shouldered it while he contacted those inside. They were surprised and delighted, having fully expected to spend another week inside with no real prospect of rescue.

> _We have company!_

Autumn faded everything in her visor but a patch of vegetation hanging from a balcony garden-box. Something about it didn't look right.

"Is there anyone up there?"

> _If there is, they're having a very bad day._

"They certainly are." Sophia unholstered her pistol and stood the way Oleksiy drilled into her, on the green-house cum firing range behind his house. She put two rounds into the not-right plant... which yanked back. Running up the bonnet of a parked car, she leapt onto the roof of the van behind it and jumping as high as she could. With the help of the suit this was about four metres off the ground. She caught the edge of the balcony and hauled herself up. A dog-weed bit her in the face, double hinged jaw failing to find purchase on her helmet. With one hand she pulled it off and flung it down to Forest where the edge of a bolted down rubbish bin broke its fall and its back.

> _For a moment there I thought you were going to use the SPNKr!_

"Are you kidding? The cinema has been here since I was a kid. That would be an appalling thing to do." Scanning left, right, and unlike the Alien movies, up, Sophia also departed from cinematic tradition by telling Forest what she was planning. "I'm clearing the cinema. There was a Model Four on the balcony, I've gone in that way. I'm going up to the roof. Can you come in from the ground floor and meet me in the middle?"

"Roger, out." Forest turned back to the console. "Sit tight in there, we aren't done clearing. Autum, cheer 'em up with some fruit juice and beers, whatever."

> _Party platter and drinks, three points. Done._

"Does the Black-Spidergirl suit have a bodycam?"

> _No, we didn't think of that. But if she agrees I can stream from her augs._

"Do that. Can you do it from my visor too?" 

> _I'll have to rewrite the firmware._

"You're going to keep them company and stop them from getting bored. It's also good PR. This is your chance to make an action flick. Reckon you're up to it?"

> _Does a bear shit in the woods?_

"I don't know. We don't get bears in Australia."

Not for the first time, Autumn wished she had eyes to roll.

The power was on, so Forest's charge at the cinema doors ended with them opening and him shooting through at full tilt and face-planting on the stairs.

> _Action-comedy! My favourite!_

Picking himself up, Forest decided there was no point asking her to edit that out. 

"Guess the power's still on."

The lights died. 

> _Tell me again about your fabled luck._

"This place have a basement or am I at the bottom level?"

> _No basement. But there's a store-room under each of the big screens, of which there are two. Doors are to the right of the screen from the audience point of view._

His visor in night-vision mode, Forest checked both. They were clear. Something fell wetly on his shoulder. Seizing and crushing it, he pulled the nun-gun from a pocket and lit up the ceiling. When the fire started to spread, he followed with another, strikingly similar tool. This one threw a sticky extinguisher foam, a lesson from the last time he set a ceiling on fire.

"Autumn, open channel. Sophia, did she tell you&mdash;"

"Zombie worms. They're disgusting and they scare me. That's why this thing has a full closed helmet and a rebreather."

"Take a seven pill anyway when we get clear. Autumn, distribute them in the shelter. Make it clear that if anyone doesn't take one the lot of them will be quarantined for 24hrs."

Forest swept the seating area, then checked the projectionist booth. Nothing. Moving to the other theatre also turned up nothing until he got to the booth. Inside it was obvious the projectionist hadn't heard the alarms. He stood, deathly still and eyes unfocussed. 

"Aw, shit."

The projectionist locked onto Forest and shambled straight at him, jaw slack and movement staccato. Forest pulled the Trenchmaker and decapitated him all over the booth. He looked down where the top of the head rocked on the floor. Half a worm hung out of it, twitching.

> _Thanks, Forest. Very persuasive._

"What?"

> _All the people who "refused to be coerced into medication" after "all that COVID nonsense" have changed their minds and formed an orderly queue._

