"Autumn, I _was_ the establishment. I _know_ what they will do. They already told me to shut down the study, send all my people home and purge the valley.

> _So send your people home, those of them who haven't decided the valley is home. That will buy you some time. They won't notice until you go off script._

"It will only slow them for a week. Then they'll arrive by air." 

> _Remember the drones he gave you for Vanderbilt, the day you met? You were concerned that he "gave strategic assets to that fat stupid hippie to defend chickens."_
>
> _He gave them to the hippie and also to Vanderbilt because he had much better toys. All of which are now yours._

She rubbed her eyes, unable to deal with any of it.

"They'll send a couple of police. Then they'll send a lot of police. I know that's no real threat, but when it doesn't work they'll take me seriously. A week later we'll see the army. Ground forces I can probably deal with but as soon as that happens it will be tanks and airstrikes."

> _And attack helicopters?_

"I assume you know about Stingers?"

> _Oh please. It has effective countermeasures. Anyway, there are about 300 Vanguard in the antipodes. Generally they are about as organised as cats, but what they absolutely will not tolerate is state interference with a Vanguard defending people. Of those 300, perhaps fifty are capable of fielding a dozen F-35 equivalent drones. A dozen have orbital strike capability. Don't look so alarmed; if they do act, they are more likely to simply turn off the power and data to Canberra._

Sophia leaned back on the wall, hands over her face. "It will never end. We'd be the people who said no and made it stick. They can't allow that."

> _Would you like me to make it all go away?_

"I'm almost afraid to ask."

> _I can help you provide evidence of a complete purge._

"That would work. Until the next drone survey. For that matter there are satellite surveys. The pictures are blurry and half the time all they see are clouds but even so..."

> _Do you really think I couldn't take care of that? Feeding false images to drones is fun. And satellites are even easier._

They went off-grid in a new sense that day. She was surprised how few left. Some of them didn't even know till the day after; they were off building their own cabins in the valley, learning to brew or make cheese, or keep bees, or feasting with new friends on spit-roasted goat.

---
[years pass, Forest is KIA in suspicious circumstances]

He always did it: walk through the storm and not get wet. That was just how he was. Until he wasn't.

"Never," he once told her, "start a fight you can't finish."

She did not give voice to her rage or grief. Instead she walked the path he had set her on, gathering her strength with quiet resolve. A day came that she could ride the lightning and call down heaven's wrath. On that day she set affairs in order and set off to deliver her final report. 

"Do you have an appointment? They are in session right now." 

"An appointment? Oh yes. I am the Death of Shadows, and this is very much the appointed hour."

She strode down the carpeted aisle to double doors, closed, bolted.

"Autumn, if you would." She flung her arms wide and Autumn indulged her, manipulating the fire safety systems to swing the doors open with a dull slam that silenced the debate within.

"I am the Death of Shadows. Your services are no longer required.
---

They wouldn't need to rise up. They only ever wanted to be left in peace, and without a shot fired she and Autumn slayed the dragon in its lair. She bought the Class IV Cyberwarfare catalogue, Autumn took control of their systems and destroyed all the government records.

She knew there would be mayhem. The couch-potatoes wouldn't know how to live without EFTPOS and credit cards and face recognition. They wouldn't be able to dial a pizza and the pizza people wouldn't know how to get their ingredients. Most of the farms were owned and run by corporations that just stopped functioning.

They'd starve or become bandits. She couldn't leave it like that. After a week she brought the banking systems back online from a backup they took, with a warning that it was a grace period only. Get out of the cities now,, she said. Learn not to live without them. You have six months.

If they actually tried, she would help them.

They couldn't really do it in six months. There's way too much to learn, too much to set up. But they could attach to existing villages like heres, learn how to live from a working community, an apprenticeship of sorts.

She knew many of the villages wouldn't appreciate a flood of effectively useless mouths to feed, but if it came to that she would  say "If you will not protect, why should I?" and support them with resources to take the sting out of it.

Sophia sat in a rocky outcrop watching sparse twinkles, each a village. Outward tranquility belied inner turmoil, a crisis of conscience. For all her preaching of independence and self-reliance, she was utterly dependent for her strength and power on Autumn and the mysterious Protectors.

She sighed and promised herself that one day this world _would_ make such wonders. One step at a time. She turns to Autumn: "They have the wisdom now, but not the knowledge." 


> _The wonderful thing about ignorance is how easily it is cured._

She became the Death of Shadows. The was no malice in it, but those who would rule learned to hate and fear her. She was not lonely: Autumn was her constant companion, invisible but rarely silent. Both of them were invisible, by choice. They were never summoned. but sometimes they were there. Sometimes they were too late, if they could not aid they would avenge.


---

> _You are also not the person you were then. We are forged by our environs, and you have grown. I don't mean to be insulting, but I didn't choose you. Forest chose you, because he knew that you would do whatever is necessary and right, and that you have skills he didn't. He is gone, but now is not the time for blood and vengeance. He could have done that himself. Today, he needs a diplomat._

"A _diplomat_?! I was a privileged minion. They will see me as an ungrateful traitor."

> _Keep in mind that while you are a very new Vanguard, you have the resources he built over years. You have me. And you have a call from Red Dust._

She blinked. Red Dust was the oldest of the antipodean Vanguard, a self-styled Crocodile Dundee, a living legend and a huge embarrassment to the establishment, not least because he was well liked, an immensely capable larrikin.

"Hello?" 

"Yeah, g'day." She heard the metal and gas sound of a beer opening. "Your AI's been talking to Boomer. Apparently you're new and things are a bit hot for yer. Just thought I'd say hi, make sure yer got me number in case yer need anything. Points can be a bit thin at the start." 

She smiled and thanked him. She couldn't resist: "You know we've met?" 

There was a long silence. "OK, where?"

"In Coonabarabran. Forest and I were there first, we'd cleared a block and let some people out of a shelter to stretch their legs when you and Greaser rolled up in a semi-trailer full of combat bots."

More silence, then "You're that chick who tanked a shot from Ack-Ack to save a kid. I remember you. But Boomer says yer new, how does that work?"

"Who's Ack-Ack?"

"One of the bots."

"I work with Forest all the time. My parents live in Coonie. We didn't know you were on the way and I thought, we, I asked Forest to help."

"Geez, you musta put on a fair turn of speed. That's a hell of a drive from your place."

"Forest has... had a Galya. That's a helicopter. It's fast."

"An Mi24? Sounds more like his mate, that Russian bloke."

"Ukrainian. He's not Russian."

"Right. Forest was worse than me, bit of a stay at home. Never came to the Christmas parties. His loss, last one was a cracker. We had a bonfire on the beach. Dragged a net, boiled up the catch in seawater in a five gallon tin. Ever been up the top end?"

"No," she said, and he told her she'd be welcome any time.

"Anyhow," he said, "I'm in PNG at the moment and things are a bit hot up here. The weeds are goin' birko, so I'm off like a bucket of prawns in the sun."

---

