The traffic was heavy. She sat there watching old wipers smear drizzling rain across the windscreen and crawled toward the lights. On the radio a rich baritone explained why high prices were the other party's fault. She snorted and muttered under her breath that it certainly wasn't anything to do with _your_ party selling the grid to the Chinese and the power generation to someone else.

The news came on. Interest rates were up. Again. She arrived at the lights and put her blinker on. In the supermarket carpark the rain abated, a small mercy. There wasn't much in the ironically named fresh fruit and veg section. It was all a bit limp and sad. Avocados were four dollars each. "I'm fairly sure these things _do_ grow on trees," she muttered.

The egg section was nearly empty. She remembered something about bird flu and the government ordering vast numbers of birds destroyed. Naturally the only producers still in the game were large corporations. Demand exceeding supply suited them just fine.

Organic apples... one package left, sixteen dollars for a kilogram of small and probably tart and floury jonathons. She bought them anyway, consoling herself that having their own chickens kept the bugs out of her kitchen garden and meant that unlike most people they had fresh protein every day. 

It wasn't strictly organic but they weren't surrounded by farmland so it was a pretty good approximation. She managed to rescue the birds when the fire-ant control board turned up without warning and sprayed everything with pyriproxyfen. It killed the neighbour's dog the first time they came but under the Biosecurity Act 2014 resisting the poisoners just gets you arrested and they do it anyway. She was halfway convinced it was a pretext for shutting down non-corporate agriculture. 

The trick was to fly under the radar. Selling the eggs would attract attention. Smart people quietly traded produce with people who had something else, like Kelly's mango tree.

She got home and started dinner. Her husband arrived from his own commute about twenty minutes later, bringing in the mail. It was a letter from the council, a two thousand dollar fine for keeping poultry in a residential zone.

"At the price of eggs we might as well pay them and ignore it. At least we _have_ eggs."

"Not according to this."

She was outside in a flash, the screen door slamming behind her. The whole wall of the chicken run was torn off. Broken eggs, bedding and feathers scattered the ground, trampled in.

"Since when is this a residential zone? It's fucking rural. That was the whole point of moving way out here."

"We have 28 days to pay."

"Bastards! God I hate them. What if we ignored them? It's not as though they can come and take the chickens now."

"Let's see... first, SPER will suspend my driving licence. Then they'll try to put a garnish&eacute; on my income. All this paperwork will incur fees, so the amount will go up and up, and they'll charge nine percent interest because we have "their" money. When they realise I don't _have_ an income on account of them suspending, they'll get a court order to allow them to 'recover' the money by seizure of assets. Court costs will be added to the 'debt'."

"That's extortion!"

"A demand for money against a threat of harm? Yes, that's exactly what it is. Well spotted."

"Why do people put up with this shit?"

"First of all, provided they aren't the victim, most people take the attitude that it's the government's right and responsibility to make rules in the public interest, and our responsibility to comply with them."

"By what right do these people decide for me?"

"Democracy, right? By the people for the people."

"Are you serious?"

"No, just messing with you. I'm not sure true democracy has ever existed. The ancient Greeks came up with sortition, but I don't think it was ever actually implemented."

"Sortition?"

"Ballot selection. Like jury duty, but for members of parliament. The problem with elections is you get politicians. Elections give you people who _want_ to govern, and people who can afford to run an election campaign, which is rich people and sock puppets for interest groups like political parties and corporations. Even the ancient Greeks figured out that these are exactly the wrong people to be in charge.

"At any rate, we are playing a game in which our opponent is also the referee."

"Well," she said, "then the answer is obvious. The only way to win the game is not to play it."

"I'm not sure that's an option they're offering."

"That just tells me you're still playing their game."

"Let's project this forward, like the not-paying thing. You want us completely outside the system, right? It's not like going camping, there's no going home with a big hamper of dirty laundry four days later. We sod off to god-knows-where and then we need food production, food storage, water collection, water treatment, grey water disposal, black water disposal, shelter, heating, lighting, textiles and that's just to live. Do you _really_ think these arseholes would leave us be? They own _everything_ because they said so. So they will send thugs to take our stuff and chase us off 'their' land and afterwards they'll send us a bill for putting them to the inconvenience."

She stared at him. She had _that_ look in her eyes. The one that was always a lot of work. She didn't say anything, she pulled up the mesh on her augs and started doing research. Two days later she came to him and said "Give 'em their blood money. We need the element of surprise.

The days weren't so long when she started clocking off at five. She knew it wouldn't last, but didn't care. It wouldn't matter when the house sold. When they fired her it would free up the time she normally wasted on traffic or being at the office. Then it finally happened, with a nice surprise: fuel is expensive, so not commuting saves a motza. Also, no takeaway coffee, no bought lunch. 

Scales fell from her eyes. Everything they relied on &mdash; electricity, clean water, tools, even basic things like lubricant or fabric &mdash; was part of a vast, interconnected system. At one time she might have found the intricacy beautiful, but now what she saw was a trap.

They had to get away. Somewhere remote, out of sight and hard to reach. But how to live without all the infrastructure? Compared to some people they were ruggedly independent, but achieving true self-sufficiency is more like colonising another planet.

People think of solar power and gardening and rainwater collection, but they stop there. Compost toilets aren't hard, all you need is a shovel. But how do you repair a solar power system? She fretted about that for a while, then moved on because it was intractable, and cities _don't_ repair them, they import replacements. 

What's a lot harder is wastewater from a modern laundry. You can't just water the garden, it's full of detergent.

And the thing _nobody_ ever mentions is textiles. She laughed out loud: it was a bit like how nobody on TV ever takes a dump. Even in hard science fiction they're always inventing guns and radios, people just magically _have_ clothes.

And seals, and lubricants, and welding rods. She was starting to despair, when she thought of the Amish in America. Obviously it _was_ possible. She'd always thought their flat-out rejection of technology was silly, but now she wasn't so sure. They were a clear template for a sustainable economy. She wasn't too thrilled with the religious aspect, but it was definitely a blessing &mdash; the state hadn't felt a need to censor information about a bunch of foreign religious nutters wilfully depriving themselves of modern convenience. 

She started taking notes. For a simple people, there was an astonishing amount to know. It shouldn't have come as a surprise, it was a blueprint for an entire society. She wondered how she would ever convince people to want this. It took _her_ forty years and a rude awakening to understand. 

In the middle of the night she had an idea, and laughed and laughed and laughed. Then she wrote it down.

The house sold. They left.
