I was born at the end of the seventies. It was the best of times.

It was a time of plenty. Everyone could afford a house. If you didn't like your job you got another one. Stay-at-home mothering was normal because couples could live on one income _while buying a house_.

Professional child-care wasn't a thing. Mothers had years to vet the people to whom they would entrust their children: generally family, or the older daughter of a friend or neighbour. Never a stranger.

If you can believe it, the most trusted people in the community were doctors, police officers bankers and schoolteachers. 

I know, right &mdash; I remember it and it's still hard to believe.

It was the worst of times. We trusted them, and trust is the weapon of the dishonest.

Politicians decided they were leaders, not representatives.

Teachers always were the voice of authority, with their state set curriculum. 

Police always were enforcers for the state. But back then they were _also_ part of the community, giving people lectures and second chances, with paperwork and punishment a last resort. Somewhere along the line they devolved into nothing but hired thugs, serving the state rather than the people. As for bankers... the less said the better.

And doctors? We believed in them and their vaccines. Then COVID happened, and everything they said was wrong. The vaccines were 'safe and effective'. They said that a lot, about every ten minutes on radio and TV. But the vaccines didn't stop you getting it. They didn't mitigate the symptoms. They didn't slow the spread or reduce the mortality or confer any lasting immunity. So much for effective. Then athletes in their prime started dropping dead from myocarditis, and eventually some lab found SV-40 in the Pfizer vaccines. That stuff _causes_ cancer. Not maybe, it straight-up causes it. So much for safe. And so much for trusting doctors.

Teachers pretty much shot themselves in the collective foot when they went rah-rah rainbow. Alternative sexuality is all well and good but people with more than half a brain and children of their own think that sexuality of _any_ sort is an inappropriate topic until late high-school, so the whole thing backfired massively.

These days people have wised up. They know that bankers are thieves and doctors are alright for broken bones and bleeding but not to be trusted for anything else. Teachers lost a lot of respect, and then people realised that in and around reading, writing and arithmetic they were also used by the state as instruments of propaganda. We've always known that politicians are liars, so when they act like it's hardly worth commenting. It's just normal.

None of this was a surprise. It happened slowly and it was normalised. People settled into cynical complacency: what can you do?

Nobody expects the state to follow the will of the people. It never has, why should it start now? And the rules are for our benefit, that's what they keep telling us. All these rules and fines and taxes are what makes our world go round. Safety, safety, safety! Nobody could possibly do anything safely without government supervision. No user serviceable parts inside.
