<dl>
  <dt>bush·whack·er [ˈbʊʃˌwakə]</dt>
  <dd>A person who clears land in bush country.</dd>
  <dd>A person who lives or travels in bush country.</dd>
</dl>

---
We went back to base camp and gave Trix some fleshmelters and a quick demo. Heading up to the citrus trees at the high creek, I dragged the remains away from the saplings and sanitised them. Autumn phoned Brian and told him to burn the carcasses, but he was ahead of us. Apparently he'd been putting the Hummingbird to work, but there hadn't been any further activity up his way for a while.

On the way to Oleksiy's I saw Janna turn into her property in her rattletrap of a van, and pulled in to bring her up to speed. She was distraught over the wreckage of the nursery, she's not wealthy at the best of times. It was a small loan and a whole season of work they ate. "Autumn? Hummingbird and a melter for the lady, I think. How's our balance?" 

"Who are you talking to?"

> _He's talking to me,_ said my car stereo, in Jen Taylor's voice. _I'm Autumn, and lumberjacket here owes you a long explanation that you aren't getting right now. Please accept these tokens of our apology and five minutes of instruction, then we have to go._

"There could be more of them. This is a midget missile launcher that you use like a gun. There's no recoil. Tap the side here for a laser dot, put the dot on the problem and pull the trigger. OK, this grenade looking thing is a melter. It's a fast acting no-stink way to not have a dead antithesis turn into a live hive. You can also just burn them depending on circumstances and time. Pile the bodies, push the big red button, put it on the pile and be at least three metres away in less than five seconds. Being closer is a bad idea. Right, I have to go. Oh, the small sow is dead, the big sow is angry and headed south."

"Is it even legal for a private citizen to have one of these?"

"Autumn?"

> _There are only three ways to get one: theft, purchase or gift from a Vanguard. The first is suicidal, and the other two imply sanction from people the state tries not to annoy._
>
> _When it's empty put the gun on ebay, they fetch astonishing prices. We'll give you another._

With that we were off down to Oleksiy's place. I'm not worried about him, he's ... larger than life. Forty years ago he built the valley road. On his own. If elected sheriffs were a thing here, he'd win hands down - if you could convince him to take the job. A paradox, really. He minds his own business yet somehow knows everything that happens in the valley.

Smoke, the kind of narrow column you only get from a managed fire. I rolled down his drive between rows of immaculate oaks and pulled off into his guest parking. Yes, guest parking out here. Crossing the bridge over enormous fishponds that definitely aren't a moat, I walked past the house calling his name and waving. He has a robust sense of private property. I may be on his welcome-any-time list, but it's important to make sure he knows who it is.

Defence done, cleanup was underway. He sat at a table outside cleaning a rifle that might have served in the Korean War.

"Just came down to make sure you weren't caught napping. I see things are well in hand."

"Yeh. Is like old times. Only not so loud, since I'm deaf. All good up your way?" I nod. "Anyone go to Gerry's place? Is in city for two weeks, tiling job and new grandson."

I should have done that, it's the other side of the valley from Brian. "Not yet, I'll go now."

"On your own?"

"I'll be right. I have new toys! But you can come if you like."

"In nice airconditioned car, yes. Alright." He reassembled the rifle and expertly filled _a magazine_. Of the kind which he cannot have have because they are heavily restricted in this country. "Start car. I tell Sissi." He vanished while I tsked to myself about the magazine.

>_What's bothering you, Chief?_

"Magazine-fed rifles are heavily controlled in this country. You can have the rifle, but also having the magazine entails a whole bunch of legal bullshit of the sort Oleksiy would not tolerate. I'm not going to ask because I don't want to know. The problem is, not reporting it makes me an accessory to a serious crime."

> _You do know you're a Vanguard, right? This is a manageable problem._

"Don't know. You hear all sorts of things, but most of it's far-fetched nonsense."

> _Like pocket-sized disposable micro-missile launchers? We're at something of a disadvantage out here. I can't hack a phone network when there's no signal. When we get back to your camp network I'll do some digging. But on most worlds Vanguard are outside the law._

"I don't think our government would agree to that, they're not very good at minding their own business."

> _Vanguards are recognised as outside the law because enforcement is impossible and the only way to save face is to avoid forcing the issue._

"The missile launcher is nice but I don't think I could hold off the entire country."

> _There are 3086 Vanguard in this country. All of them do what the state should but can't. Two thousand of them have better weapons than the state. More than a hundred of them possess orbital strike capability. All of them would take exception to any attempt to control a Vanguard._

"That sounds... unbalanced."

> _It is. But you are all chosen for personality and values, and the social contract is very much in force. For average citizens, the state can dictate terms. But Vanguard can push back hard, so the state negotiates in good faith. It is a sad fact that negotiation in good faith is guaranteed only when both parties can hurt the other. You will do the right thing partly because it is in your nature and partly because the support I mentioned hinges on the faith of your peers in your right action. They'll back you up first and ask questions later. You won't let them down. Malice is not in you._

Oleksiy arrived, getting into my car without a word. Six minutes later he hopped out to open Gerry's gate for me. Halfway to the north fence he tapped my shoulder. "Stop. Two bends up, 20m to the right of the road." 

"Stay with the car and make sure nothing is behind me. I'll go get 'em." We slid silently out, leaving the doors open. I ghosted up the road about halfway to the targets, painting one. Phut! Game over for one of them but the jig was up and another one charged toward me. This made aiming easy, so it met the same fate. There weren't any more. I trotted back to Oleksiy. 

"You have space friend in head, came with new toys."

The car stereo lit up.

> _Я вважаю за краще, щоб до мене зверталися як до Осені, але це точний підсумок._

He laughed. I looked confused. She translated.

> _I prefer to be addressed as Autumn, but this is an accurate summary._

"About the rifle. It has a magazine. I don't want you to have trouble. Are you licensed for that?"

He gave me a look.

"It's entirely fine with me, but when we're done today I'm going to give you another weapon, a 'space gun'. Keep them together and no-one will ask questions.

Near the north gate a plant party was in full swing. Very slow swing. One of the reasons Australia has less trouble with antithesis is our trees have insanely hard wood. If you want to put a nail in it, you need a pilot hole and it blunts the drill. Our chainsaws are next level machinery. It wouldn't surprise me if people from other worlds buy them from Vanguard catalogues. Antithesis do eat eucalypts, but it takes _much_ longer for them to gather biomass. They start with the undergrowth and leaf litter. The trees are last because they're hard work.

Phut phut phut phut clik "Reload!" I said, left hand out for the prize, right hand tossing the empty aside. Phut phut phut "FUAARRRGH!"

There was a spike sticking out of my chaps. One end of it was in my leg, not deep but very painful and making it hard to walk. It came out and I searched for the source, muttering rude words and wondering why the hell I left the visor in the car. 

> _Twelve metres your ten o'clock, up a tree. Forward fast for cover._

I sprinted, leg be damned. 

> _Stop! Your eight o'clock, ten metres._

Peeping round the tree I yanked back behind it as more spikes embedded in hardwood. The thing trying to kill me was a tentacled stego-bear. It looked unhappy in a very sharing way. Ready with the Hummingbird this time, I peeped round the other side of the bole, fired six shots and fell back into cover. More embedding thuds. "I need a weapon! One with big balls!" A box manifested. Ripping the top off I found two glassy black balls linked by an incredibly fine wire. "What the fuck is this? It looks like a sex toy!"

> _It's a bolo. You throw it._

"What? I asked for a weap- Oh. Give me a class one kinetic handgun with high stopping force, please. And a fragmentation grenade." More boxes appeared. The gun was a weird looking thing, all chrome curves with a sort of shroud for my arm. There was a magazine and by the weight it was loaded. I slapped it in with a satisfying chunk, flinging myself clear of the tree, rolling to a knee and firing until I saw impacts stagger stego-bear.

> _We come in peace. Shoot to kill!_

"Are you watching my movies while I'm getting shot at? Spiked at, whatever."

> _Only while I wait for things to happen._

"At least the stupid thing just sat there. If it moved it would have been a lot more dangerous."

I'd all but reached the car when Oleksiy opened fire. Whirling, I had two salvos away then dived into the front seat to fish my visor out. Autumn marked three fast moving small targets and another of the spike flinger stego-bears. This one was moving so I focused on making it as dead as possible. Several direct hits and a confirmed kill. Two incoming. Phut! BLAM! Kill. Miss. BLAM! Kill. No targets remained. Everything in my visor flashed green for an instant before colour returned. 

Oleksiy looked concerned. I followed his gaze. Gerry had a compost heap. It was very big. And it was _moving_.

"I need a weapon."

> _I **do** know how to pick 'em. Bullet, bomb or burn?_

"Any of my catalogues have a flamethrower?"

> _No. How about M19 rounds?_

"Thermobaric?"

> _In a forest?_

"One problem at a time."

> _Alright. It's your forest._

A case appeared on the ground, already open, with a clip for the M41. Ejecting the old clip with a round still in it, I slapped the new one in and let all four fly.

> _Will you look at that, a newborn nest. Someone got lucky today!_

Anything will burn if you fill it with white phosphorus. The whole thing writhed frantically, with a sound like popcorn as seedpods burst. Flaming half grown dog weeds ran in all directions and I began to worry about the fire spreading. Both of us steadily potted them but the fire was spreading. Luckily it rained yesterday and the understory was fairly damp, only burning where the dog weeds fell.

"Autumn, do you know the implement used to control a canefire last century?"

> _I don't currently have network access._

"Like a broom except instead of a brush there's a wire and a wet hessian sack like a flag but in line with the handle instead of being at ninety degrees. Two of them and a trough of water to wet them in." 

We ambled from kill to kill, following the scorchmarks and putting out first one kind of fire and then the other till none were left and the nascent nest was no longer a conflagration, just a fire with satellites.

"You sounded pretty excited about the nest."

> _Yes! Your first token, Chief! And quite a few points._

"Token?"

> _We need to talk._

"That sounds ominous. Talk."

> _Privately._

"That sounds worse. Fine, have we got enough points to leave Oleksiy with some spare Hummingbirds and some clips for the M41? And I need more ammo for the chromy handguard thing." 

> _They're in the tray, Oleksiy. Lazybones here will help you carry them into the house. He also bought you a sling for the launch clips, some webbing and holsters for two Hummingbirds and a pair of binoculars. And two more magazines, a loading clip and a case of ammunition for the "chromy handguard thing", also known as a Trenchmaker._

"I have catalogues and points for all that?"

> _You don't need catalogues for Class 0 stuff, which is anything you can buy retail. And the bonfire was profitable. We should do that more often._

"Right. Oleksiy, let's get you back home before Sissi gets pissy. She's terrifying when she's upset. I'm going to have to go. You have my number if you need help or ammo." Signal here is patchy but SMS works. He doesn't need instruction, that would be telling granny how to drink vodka.

Lazybones did not help carry the toys. While Oleksiy ambled over his moat, arms filled with alien loot, Autumn decided to tell me things. Tokens and catalogues. Protectors and the selection of Vanguard. Some things common knowledge, some not. She wanted me to get augs, but Trix is dead against them and I'm not exactly wild about things messing with my head. 

We compromised on glasses with an earpiece for occasions when I don't want to wear PPE. I wear glasses anyhow, and these ones are _awesome_. They have active lensing that moves in and out with the focal distance implied by the parallax of my eyes. So when I go crosseyed looking at the end of my nose, that's where they focus. They were in the External Augmentations Class I catalogue, which is apparently a steal at thirty points. Trix is going to want a pair. Since the glasses themselves were a whopping three points I've asked for a pair for her. Autum will deliver them giftwrapped too, which is nice.

I was about to drive off when Sissi stormed over the moat with a sheepish Oleksiy in tow.

"When you need, he go. Just go. You know?" She's a little Thai woman, the perfect host, most often demure and retiring, but sometimes ferocious. "He tell you what his name mean?" She didn't wait for me to reply. "Defender of mankind. I know why you trust with space things. When you need, he go. Waste time ask. Important." I didn't know what to say so I nodded and thanked them both.
