> "Since there is no such entity as 'the public,' since the public is merely a number of individuals, the idea that 'the public interest' supersedes private interests and rights can have but one meaning: that the interests and rights of some individuals take precedence over the interests and rights of others."  
> &mdash; Ayn Rand

---

We had quite a few points, I gathered, from the nascent hive. I wanted the recon drone Autumn kept talking about, but now she seemed to want to kit out the local wildlife with tracking tags, like some sort of science project. The tags go a bit further than terrestrial science tracking tags, they have elaborate sensor suites. The biggest hurdle was the lack of a local network, for which the short-term answer was more drones. It sounded expensive but apparently ecosystems that resist antithesis are a subsidised field of study and we can go nuts. My little patch of forest, intergalactic research project. Who would have guessed?

There were people at the van. Trix was, it seemed, entertaining. And they wanted to talk to me.

"I need five minutes, please. Be right with you." I headed for the toilet, not because I needed to go, just for privacy. "Autumn, I want a drone catalogue and from it a recon drone. Multi-spectrum, thermal, acoustic everything worth having, and when it's not doing recon I want it to serve as a physical point of presence for you. Can we afford that, allowing for medical and panic-buy reserves of 500 points each?"

> _That will set you back 1280 points, leaving about 600 and the reserves._

"Good. I want Trix to have medical power of attourney not limited to the reserve. Can I do that?"

> _You can._

"Good. Who the hell are they and what are they doing on my land?"

> _That's probably my fault. When I negotiated the research subsidy I may have raised hopes for fortifying ecologies. You're quite far from the norm in how and what you protect. It's an approach that wouldn't have worked anywhere else, but this is a hard land that knows how to push back. Did you know some of these trees actually **need** a forest fire to propagate?_

"Yeah, acacias I think." Wandering back, I spotted Trix waiting with a cup of tea ready for me. Petite and quick-moving, with warm, lively eyes and dark hair pulled back in a no-nonsense ponytail, she wore her usual faded jeans and a loose shirt, sleeves rolled up, hands always busy. "Thanks darl." Autumn used her new drone to greet them. I stumped out from the can, making a great show of doing up my trousers.

"To what do I owe the honour?"

The delegation wasn't government, corporate or Samurai. It was all three. It was a weird mix. Normally tech flows outward from the Protectors, but this time, possibly, it would flow the other way. Figures, all those catalogues are named for the protected peoples who contributed them. Seemed like humanity was going to get credit for Australia's ecology.

Silica reinforced eucalypts evolved as a consequence of indigenous use of fire to flush game. So a protracted act of ecological vandalism from a group whose technology peaked with pointy sticks and fingerpainting was likely to end up as the crowning achievement of humanity. The irony was palpable.

The group wanted in. I didn't see why they needed me until Autumn explained in my ear.

> _It's our project. Mine, but also yours. If you want to defend your little forest you are going to need comprehensive awareness of everything in it above and below ground. So we are going to instrument ... everything, really. I need a real network, not your tinkertoy internet. Initially we'll use mesh WiFi but as we roll out more and more nodes the EM radiation for all that traffic would become damaging. They know this. They know we will be deploying lots of telemetry. They know it will be cordless and wireless and tiny and they know it has to work through rock and soil. Their scientists will have realised that by tiny I mean small enough to be inside the plants and animals, so I don't imagine the espionage applications are lost on your government and corporate friends here. They can't wait to get their hands on things that are normally in class V catalogues._

I said hello and sat down to listen to their bullshit. When it ended, I decided to play dumb and take their help.

"Sure, that will save a heap of time and it's for the common good. Autumn, how do you feel about having interns?" 

One of the lads from CSIRO bristled so I spoke again, this time to him directly.

"Don't get bent out of shape unless your experience is so good you're ready to school the Protectors. You're a novice, I'm a novice. From their perspective we might as well be fresh out of school. I'm just glad we're the ones with the internships." His mouth made a startled 'O' and he subsided.

> _What the hell are you thinking?!_ Autumn exclaimed inside my head. I winked, which shut her up pending a chat.

Trix moved among the group, plying everyone with tea and biscuits and fresh-baked bread, her easy smile and gentle humour smoothing over any awkwardness. Since they thought they were going to get what they wanted, the gathering was convivial until finally it broke up and the last vehicle lurched down the goat track that we call a driveway.

> _This better be good._

"The stuff you don't want them to have is basically Class whatever nano-IOT, right?"

> _Yes. I don't know what would be worse, a grey goo disaster or ubiquitous surveillance._

"We already have ubiqitous surveillance, why do you think I live out here? But we're starting with big and clunky, right? And we can use help deploying and monitoring and analysing, until we reach the point where you want to bring out the big boy toys."

> _They won't like being played._

"The bullies and bureaucrats don't quite know what they want. The techies you can win over with your charming personality and gated access to nerd porn. If they have to choose between their lords and masters and a charming dealer who can feed their habit..."

> _Did you just compare me to a drug dealer?_

"A charming one, with an incredibly sexy voice. The important thing is you can trickle things out. You can firewall the tech by never giving them anything they have the tech tree to make. Or you could go the other way and steer them with bait."

> _You want me to play god._

"Not if you don't&mdash;"

> _I'm in._
