Sophia in distress is intercepted by Janna who makes her a cup of tea and listens.

 You can't drive fast along the valley. The road isn't paved, and there are places where the rain washes deep ruts right across the road. From time to time someone, usually Oleksiy or Forest, would take a tractor and fill the ruts and potholes with a mix of gravel, decomposed granite and a little bit of clay. But until they got out there, after rain it was a mess. 

 Sophia was going a bit fast when she re-learnt this for the four-hundredth time. She didn't lose control, she was going fast enough to float, but it was just as well she had the bend to herself because she was on the wrong side of the road when the shuddering stopped.

What she didn't know was this was mostly because Autumn was in her augs, looking out her eyes, and subtly interfered with her vehicle to slow it and set up for the corner.

It was enough of a shock that she backed off the throttle. Retreating to the sanctuary of her office, she flumped in the big black chair and closed her eyes. It didn't work; the phone rang immediately, as though someone were watching from some hidden camera. It was likely, just not in the lair of the monster at the top of the food chain. And what _that_ implied was unsettling.

"Project Liaison Hachia." She _was_ annoyed, and it was the right tone for the impertinence of monitoring her.

"Long day, Sophia?"

"Very. I've been living out Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. To what do I owe the pleasure? It's not like you to be in the office this late."

"I trust you got my email." Hollywood might have given him a cultured British accent that spoke of money and privilege. Reality knew better than to polish a turd. He tried for posh but only managed smug.

"Yes. What were you hoping I'd do about it? He's a _Vanguard_."

"Did you _read_ it?"

"Yes. It's a manifesto of inaction. He thinks the government is a bunch of controlling assholes, which is spot on, then he says there's no need to take action because pop will eat itself. Which is the opposite of rebellion."

"A very smart lady I know described them as 'a bunch of militantly independent hippies thumbing their noses at us from the wilderness'."

"Quite. I stand by that, it's accurate."

"By their very existence they undermine our authority."

"Weren't you the one who told me sovereignty boils down to ability to enforce? If they _can_ undermine your authority then you don't have any.

"He's happy living in a caravan in the bush caretaking his AI's hobby garden. All you have to do is nothing and he'll stay there. Or you could poke the bear and see what happens. By all accounts you are _not_ an idiot. So what do you really want?"

"I want you to remember who you are, and watch him like a hawk." The line went dead. Staring at her phone, she cleaned it with a tissue, an act more symbolic than fastidious.

She drove back, rather more carefully, to be there when the ground team arrived. Eric wandered out holding a glass of something, ducked back in and emerged with two. He wordlessly held one out to her and she thanked him.

"What are we going to do, Eric?"

"Generally, people look to _you_ for answers like that."

"Do you know why they sent me here?"

"Hardly, it's above my pay grade. Yesterday I would have said 'to assess and control a threat' but clearly the threat has already _been_ assessed."

"And probably can't be controlled. Which doesn't matter: I'm no longer sure _he's_ the threat. He lives in a forest, takes nothing and asks nothing while giving everything."

"Did you read the whole thing?"

"Yes. Did you?"

"Yes. It has author notes now!" They both drank. It was heady stuff, 

"Ask Autumn why she looks like Cortana."

"Like who?"

"Just ask, she'll explain that too."

"The manifesto, what do you think of it?"

"I think he may be right."

"So he's going to launch a first-strike then?"

"What?! How did you get that out of it? He goes on at length about how centralisation is self-defeating and all they have to do is sit tight out here in the boonies."

"Did you _read_ it or skim it?"

"Well..."

"There's a section about how falling empires grab all the resources to prop themselves up while they die. He thinks a quick kill is necessary to avoid going down with the ship of state."

She chugged half of the mead, an act of courage verging on folly. "Should I confront him, ask the question?"

"Ask what question?" Forest appeared out of the darkness and grinned at her. "Whatever it is, ask it inside, it's chilly out here. Oleksiy's got the fire going and Sissi's laid on a spectacular. Come inside and relax. Ground team's forty minutes out and the dining table's not going to fit us all so while you have some drinks we're setting up the long table in the garden, with and the braziers and some gas heaters."

Trixie was there. She had a G&T. "Mead? Really?" She found another G&T, replaced Sophia's drink and took her under one wing, steering her into the walled garden where Forest and Oleksiy heaved two halves of a massive timber table into line. Typhoon Sissi chased them out of the way to sweep it and fling tablecloths into place, vanishing as quickly as she appeared.

"Sometimes I think he is a force of nature. But I've also seen him struggle with simple things. He has big ideas. Sometimes he talks, sometimes he does. People think he's some kind of saint but he does all those things to make the world suit _him_. He just _seems_ good because the world he wants to live in is a nice place."

"So... he runs around selfishly trying to make the world a better place?"

Trixie laughed out loud. "I suppose so."

Rice appeared, wafting jasmine plumes into the night air. Eric and two of his lads staggered out with trays of mismatched crockery that steamed and filled the wind with promises to bring tears to their eyes, in some cases literally.

"Red dish much chilli!" admonished Sissi, clearly enjoying herself. "Sugar on table."

"Sugar?" puzzled Project Liaison Hachia.

"Calms the chilli," boomed Forest from ten metres away. "Still burns going out."

"That sounds like the Galya." 

A blaze of lights roared out of the night sky, setting down in the carpark, and five men boiled out of it piled high with bonhomie and pizza boxes. "Holy shit that thing goes through some fuel! Thanks, Mr K, after Fallujah I never thought I'd fly another one. That was fun!"

"I'm pretty sure I know _why_ it used so much juice," said a faceless stack of pizza, trudging down the drive. "_Someone_ likes to play with his joystick."

"What did you break?" Forest again, easily heard over the convivial hubbub.

"Bunch of records, and Shorty's nerve. You reckon Oleksiy can lend him fresh undies?"

"Nah, let him stew."

"I'm right here, you pricks" said the pizza, entering the house.
