> Si vis pacem, para bellum.
>
> (If you would see peace, prepare for war.)
> 
> — Publius Flavius Vegetius Renatus, _Epitoma Rei Militaris_

Sophia's exasperated sigh all but echoed. "Forest, why are you so damn contrary? I have to give them _something_. You aren't ready for visitors."

"Alright, I'll think about it. 

"As for why I'm like this..." he scratched his chin. His beard waggled comically, left fork longer than the right, like his moustache. "You know what a social contract is. We toe the line and the state provides and maintains order, that stuff."

"You don't need to be in state security for that, we teach it to children. It's the basis of society."

"The basis of society is no-man-is-an-island. We cooperate because there's too much to know and do for any ten men. I trust you and Eric with watching my back because even Oleksiy has to sleep sometime. And I trust you with organising because you're bloody good at it and I'm not. Those are my _choices_."

"Me and Eric? Why us? Aren't we the enemy?"

"Are you? I judge people by their actions, you know that."

"How do you know I'm not being nice to you to get you to drop your guard?"

> _He has his own state security, which never rests._

Autumn's presence drone flickered to life. She looked kind of hot and totally ridiculous in patent leather jackboots, a trench coat with shoulder boards, and a peaked cap. The avatar morphed to a chesire cat grin and winked out as the drone shut down.

> _Don't look so hurt. I watch everything. If your integrity were in doubt I wouldn't have told you that. For that matter I watch over you too, because he needs you more than he knows. Yes, that's right. I know what you've been doing._

"If _you_ noticed&mdash;"

> _You leave less of a trail than you think. Really, it's no trouble. I'm used to cleaning up after Captain Subtle over there._

Forest ignored this and pushed on with his lecture. "Choice. You can't have a contract without mutual assent. All those people are born and raised. As soon as they're capable of understanding it they're told they owe the state obedience for maintaining the system. That's not a binding contract, they never agreed to it. Not even implicitly. You were coerced. They hide every other option behind constant make-work. The moment someone says 'I don't _want_ the system, I have my own answers' they get nasty. I can speak to that." He gestured at himself.

"Some people _like_ Xboxes and utilities that don't require a shovel."

"That's why I haven't been more ... forceful. They are entitled to their own freedom, such as it is."

"You know these people aren't self-sufficient, right?"

"What?"

"You're self-reliant, not self-sufficient. Every day I see someone go into town for supplied. Building hardware mostly, or tools. Things you can't make out here because a smelter and a drop-forge are too big for a farm shed."

A long silence ensued. Forest looked unhappy.

"Autumn, I need a&mdash;"

> _Reboot plan. They're normally used either for colonising new planets or recovering from global war._

"Why is that a thing?"

> _It's a big galaxy. Some creatures are even dumber than you. You'll need a new catalogue for 400 points._

Forest whistled. "What the hell is _in_ it at that price?"

> _Everything. A bunch of instructions manuals and a lot of hardware. Everything you need to restart from scratch in one generation._

"Define 'generation'." Still stinging from 'dumber'.

> _About thirty terrestrial years. Or ten, depending on how hard you work. It can't be less than that, trees take time to grow._

"From what size population?"

> _You'll need twenty thousand people. In twenty villages. Sited around resources._

"Fine, buy it."

> _Already have. With discretionary project points._

"Why?"

> _I move in mysterious ways. You did invite me to play god._
