Shorty looked irate. Watching the outside news would do that to a man, he thought. Snorting, he wondered why it had taken living here for two years to see through the charades.

He muttered under his breath: "Clue time for politicians: you are public servants, not public masters. We tell you what to think, not the other way around, and if you don't like it then your choices are suck it up, step down or admit you are a despot."

Sheila stood in the doorway, looking at him with an appraising face.

"You sound like Forest."

He blinked at her. "Then he's right. But it's just common sense. I don't know why I ever thought we lived in a democracy. Have any of them ever asked what _you_ wanted them to do?"

She laughed.

He went on. "It occurred to me the other day that no-one I ever voted for ended up winning. I never realised it before, but at no point in my entire life have I ever had representation. How did I manage to live for forty years without noticing that?"

Sheila had an odd expression, like she'd reached a decision or something. She didn't say what, just walked up and embraced him.

"Aiden likes it here."

"Yeah, he's found some friends. Bazza's kid, what was his name?"

"Scott. They're always off running around together. Nothing's ever a walk, always full tilt."

"Oh to be young again. Wish I'd grown up in a place like this. You ever hear Forest talk about the things he got up to as a kid? It's like a different planet."

"You know his childhood was fifty years ago and on farms and the outskirts of country towns, right?"

"Yeah I guess. But in some ways he's recreated it here for the kids. Ken was telling me his lad was wandering with friends and Forest steered them away from the Antithesis compound. For a consolation prize he took them to pull frames out of one of his supers."

"Pull what out of what?"

"Beehives. Honeycomb."

"Is _that_ where it came from? There's some in the kitchen! It's in one of those weird flat stoneware containers the hippie makes."

"Hippie?"

"The pig-lady with the young trees."

"Those pigs scare me. Have you seen the size of those sows?"

---

Ken "Doll" Murchison sat on the couch in the prefab double-donger he shared with his wife and son Scott, listening with one annoyed ear to a televised tale of political misconduct. The reporter probably didn't see it that way; she was all but fan-girling the Prime Minister, who was busy remonstrating the nation for not buying into the inherent special-ness and privilege his government accorded the 'First Nations'.

"For starters," said Ken to his TV, "they weren't first. They were the second wave."

On the screen the PM went on as though he hadn't heard.

"Second, they weren't a bloody nation. They were two or three hundred separate tribes. With a hundred distinct languages, no central government and no organised opposition when our lot turned up. Not. A. Nation."

The Prime Minister didn't care. He knew what was best, and the media would play it over and over until the voters forgot there was another point of view. Ken grabbed the remote and angrily switched it off. Watching made his blood boil, but if you didn't watch then you didn't even know what they were up to.

Outside with a beer he calmed, halfway through capping it and putting it back in the fridge so the kids or worse the missus didn't come home and see him drinking alone. Only on man&oelig;uvres did he ever really feel like he belonged. Him and the boys, discipline and hot brass against the slavering horde. He could _shoot_ the plant monsters. Sometimes while he did it he fantasised about hosing down the parliament, washing away the smug lying thieves with blood and brass.

His boy came home, skinned knees and shorts, picking a tick off one arm and flicking it away, all gruesome grin and missing teeth and cheerful freedom from responsibility. 

Ken looked at his watch.

"It does _not_ take 45 minutes to get here from the school. Where've you been?"

"Miss Carter took us up the the fish nursery, they're spawning at last! Aiden's dad said that means Forest will stock the dams and next year we can go fishing. You always say how great the fishing was when you were a kid. I want to try that."

"I don't mean to rain on your parade, son, but it takes more than one year for the fish to grow. And that's if nothing goes wrong."

His father's voice was softer than usual, full of regret and the certain knowledge that the world would fail him again. There was no hope in it and the boy's face fell. An angry man with no hope and no place in the world realised his boy needed him. Wanted him.

"We won't be fishing for a while yet, but did you know the crawchies grow a lot faster than the fish? Forest put em in last year when they built the low dam. I actually do fancy our chances of a boil up. Want to go see whether we can surprise mum with a seafood dinner?"

---

A crotchety old Slav with aching joints and a burden of memories no cultured person should be expected to bear was having a nice day. The kids who walked across his land without asking were well-mannered and apologetic. They probably _hadn't_ known where the unfenced boundary was. He took them down the bottom to where he stood or kneeled to shoot. The 74cm barrel of his Mosin-Nagant was conspicuous where it sprawled beside ammo boxes on a table made from an old solid-timber door. Oleksiy showed them that they'd walked right across between him and his targets. Not only did they look suitably shaken, they recovered, took responsibility, said they'd warn their friends to stay away from there, and then made his day by asking whether he would teach them.

"One question, sir," said one of them, a boy named Aiden. "Rifles are _loud_. My dad says TV silencers are bullshit, real ones should be called mufflers not silencers. Why couldn't we hear you?"

The old face creased in a smile, it was an outstanding question. 

"This and five more like it." He leaned in conspiratorially and picked up an odd device that looked like a chunky old radio. "Space magic. Gift from Autumn!"

"Why? Is it a secret?"

"Partly, young one. But some of my tools are _very_ loud." He flicked a catch on a big oiled timber case with brass fittings, lifting it open to reveal the oily gleam of a well cared for SPNKr. The boys drew in their breath as one.

"Stand there. I show." He pointed. Putting on earmuffs and switching off the alien space magic, he looked back. "Open mouth. Put finger in ears, both. Is _loud_." He waited for compliance and seated his earmuffs, checked the boys again then fired. Almost a second later the round hit and all of them jumped. He didn't need to see to know. Making the weapon safe he unloaded and set it down.

"Alien space magic." He flicked it back on. "No need to upset ladies."

Scott and Aiden gawked with stars in their eyes at the crater where the target used to be.

---

// todo Janna doing horticulture, ducks and piglets as children magnet. Bees talk to Janna, she never mentioned it because crazy. Paint her like a proper old school witch (herbalist and horticulturalist). Autumn is having fun metaphorically dressing up the humans like dolls hence the soap-making cauldron (not yet given) and she has cast Janna as the mother (maiden, mother, crone). From Janna's point of view this has benefits, not least of which is the bees make sure she is the first to know any change in the weather and when any plant shows the slightest sign of wilting (time to water). To others she has an unearthly grip on the world about her. Her already significant knowledge of the uses of herbs and the preparation of tinctures and remedies from them is now supported via advice from Autumn through the bees; thus she appears to have the entirety of human wisdom on the subject (and effectively does)

---

// todo Forest building a communal ablutions block, showers, toilets, washing machines, wide verandas with shutters, with an open fireplace in the shower. Because he hates cold bathrooms. It also has a boiler for hot water. Invite ground team for pig on a spit and try out the sauna (not all at once it's not that big).

---

// todo Trixie making Forest fence her kitchen garden to keep wallabies out. Forest is lazy, his solution is to teach kids bowhunting and point out to them that herb gardens are prey magnets. Mid-October they discover the fireflies. Learning how to keep ticks and leeches off while lying in wait.

---

//todo Forest looking astonished that anyone thinks well of him

"You cannot be serious. I'm lazy. Thoughtless. Self-centred. Vain. I 'spose I'm not greedy. Apart from food. I don't handle criticism well. Even when I do things for others it's only because I need them to look after me too. I'm pretty sure the only reason I'm honest is I'm so bad at telling lies it's safer."

This is belied by his actual conduct and the gentle mercy he shows for animals that need his help. Which may be the final mercy, but this is not a casual decision.

He worries about the verified fact that his once astonishingly sharp (but lazy) mind is not what it was. Memory fails, and reasoning is following it, though fortunately not quickly. He likes being put on a pedestal but worries he might fail people, and not deserve it. Ironically, the harder he tries to live up to his own legend the bigger it gets.

There is a terrible inner conflict because Autumn has offered him implants to help with his failing brain but Trixie is dead against that kind of tech and he doesn't want to lie about it to her, especially because there is a possibility it could fail and widow her.

---

The Project Liaison spoke: "After the death of Chris Borton, our resident Vanguard sent his apologies for not getting there fast enough."

Eric took over. "I'm inclined to take this at face value, because he put his money where his mouth is. If you sold this cartload of apology it would be enough to build a small house."

Shorty Fenaluci was on his feet, Italian monobrow beetled with rage. "We appreciate the intention but we are not for sale. It won't bring Chris back and we still had to tell his missus. You had to do it, Eric. You know."

"Take a look at what the gift is, Shorty. Then you'll understand." 

Sophia handed him a large flat box. He popped the top off, dropping it and flicking out the garment. 

"Woundsock. You wear it like underwear and if it's cut or punctured it self-applies as a tourniquet."

Eric handed it to the nearest man and another box appeared in his outstretched hand, this one smaller and deeper.

He popped it open. 

"Medkit." 

Lifting out a bright red bum-pack with an embroidered white cross, he unzipped the top and counted out the contents. He brandished a syringe looking thing. 

"One Wound-Stop. Stops bleeding." 

He tossed it to the group for inspection. 

"One H&aelig;mo-Restore. Replaces lost blood. You inject it." 

That one was in a a small carton because it had a needle already attached. He threw it out for inspection. 

"And this is the golden one: one Nanite Inhaler. You cannot buy these at any price. They are the reason Vanguards are so damn hard to kill, and you get one each."

The other two items had come back. He threw out the inhaler, which briefly did a round and went back in the kit. Shorty stared at the pile. A whole cartload of second chances. But no second chance for Chris. He looked at the ground for a while, and reached a decision.

"Where is he?"

"Where's who?"

"The Vanguard."

Eric looked surprised by the question. Sophia took it.

"Up by the enclosures. He's not happy about losing a man so he's been staying close."

"We done for the day, here? I think we should go thank him in person."

Sophia took his measure and decided he wasn't going to do anything foolish. 

"Sure. Early mark for anyone who wants to do that."

"Right!" said Shorty, in his paddock voice. "Squirt and Boxer, here's the shuttle keys. Get into town and hit the Star, get a cold slab of Peroni Red. No, get two. My wallet's in the console."

"Red? What the fuck is Peroni _Red?_ Never heard of it."

"Lucky for you this area is full of Italian farmers. It's the good stuff. If the bottle-o next to Woolies doesn't have it then get it from the Star next to the IGA. It won't be on show, they'll get it out of the back room. And get a _cold_ slab. And don't just say Peroni or they'll give you the retail shit. When you got the beer go to the butcher's and get half a lamb. While you're doing that I'll get my spit ready. In fact go to the butcher first or they'll close. If they don't have half a lamb get a couple of roasts. Tell em it's for a spit."

"Someone round up team C&mdash;"

"No," interrupted Sophia, regretfully putting her boss hat on, "if team B is drinking they're on standby."

"Someone tell team C they're on standby," continued Shorty without missing a beat, "And tomorrow Eric will stand them a spit and some beer, won't you Eric!" His cheeky grin flashed across the room. "Right, you lot. Scrub up, we're visiting. Lefty and Geezer, get a table and some folding chairs, chuck em in the ute, then scrub up and drive it up there.

"Shorty?"

"Yes, Eric?"

"We're not quite done yet."

The back paddock voice made another appearance. "We're not done yet sorry, everyone back in!"

Sophia was grinning and holding up another elegant box like some sort of trophy. She tossed it to Eric who opened it with a flourish. 

"Magic space guns!"

"Looks like an SMG to me."

"It _is_ an SMG." Eric tossed a clip to Shorty and slapped another into the weapon. He racked a round, turned and fired at the ground. Firing was relatively muted. Impact was not. There was a thirty centimetre crater. Dirt rained a moment later.

Eric stacked colour-coded clips. "Red, explosive. Yellow, incendiary. Blue, armour-piercing. Armour piercing is interesting, it fires in bursts of three. The first two make a hole. The third is a nylon round that bounces around inside the armour. Nasty."

"No normal rounds?"

A black magazine joined the stack.

"Any _other_ kinds?"

"Depleted uranium was vetoed by her majesty here."

"Spoilsport!"

"You're welcome," said Sophia.

"Where do we get refills?"

"Same as regular ammo. This stuff is stupidly valuable so we're tracking it as assets. Use your regular weapons first, you'll know when to break these out. No more body bags."

"Limited supply then?"

"Depends on how much you like company. Vanguards get points for kills, they buy this stuff with points. If he goes with you he gets half points for _your_ kills and that buys you more ammo".

Shorty started to laugh. "Anything else, Santa?"

"Not today, we have to get back to the North Pole."

Sophia tapped his shoulder and held out a much larger box.

"Oh yeah. I forgot. This is for Lipssh, Lipswitch... the Pole."

"What is it? Aren't you gonna open it?"

"It's a SPANKr like the one the Ukrainian has." Eric grinned wickedly. "Put it in his locker and wait for him to find it. And get the security camera footage, I want to see his face. There's two rounds in the case, we have more."

They set it down and left, smiling at the good natured argument behind them over whether to test fire it before or after the Pole got back.
