# 2.30. A Right Pickle

> So help me, cod.<br>
> — Forest

---

Scott was very pleased with his haul. 

The Christmas before, Miss Priya convinced Forest to try putting spangled perch in with the Murray cod. 

"What have you got against spangled perch?" Forest had said. "I'm not sure we should let anything smaller than _you_ swim in that water, until I fish the last of the cod out."

The cod were the most successful fish disaster since tilapia, but native. Forest assumed that since they were on the approved list they were a good idea. Apex predators, it was a wonder the damn things didn't eat the ducks. They probably _did_ eat the ducklings. The only things that survived in the same dam were the blueclaws, and that was only because they were fast, armoured, randy little buggers.

But Priya was always right when it came to fish, so he tried it. And the cod grew fat, but the perch bred like mosquitos. Sure enough, the girl was right. And then Forest caught the big one, triumphantly filleting it and scarfing fat, oily fillets grilled on open flame with big, crunchy oversalted chips that gave him gas but were too delicious not to eat.

If there was another cod in there, it wasn't the monster, and the number and size of spangled perch boomed. The only problem was they weren't the best table fish. The _flavour_ was fine, but they were full of fine bones that were hard to see and harder to remove.

Ken dropped over to share a glass one afternoon and mentioned it to Forest. 

"He was so disappointed, but what can you do? I told him that it's a whole ecology in there, and not all of it is directly edible. He's a good lad, he listens and he thinks. He's been using them to bait the crays."

Forest grinned that big, goofy, shit-eating I've-got-a-plan grin and filled their mugs, leaning back. Ken sensed the switch to tales-of-my-youth and settled to listen.

"I used to love fishing with my dad. One afternoon I was fishing off the back of his big boat."

"How many boats did he have?"

"Two, at that point. A fourteen foot tinny and the big one, forty-five tonne displacement."

Ken blinked. That wasn't a powerboat. It sounded like a trawler. A large one.

Forest read his face and said "Floating restaurant. Three hulls, shallow draft. Anyhow, I caught this weird fish I didn't recognise. Some of his trawler operator mates were aboard that afternoon and they told me it was a 'shad'. Rubbish fish, they said. Too bony. Can't sell em.

"When the cruise was over and the passengers gone, dad took me aside and said 'You like roll-mops.' It wasn't a question, I did. He made them from time to time and I always loved eating them. So we got everything we needed from the restaurant supplies, rock salt, cloves, peppercorns, olives and some fine table salt. I scaled and cleaned it, cut fillets. Bream too, the shad wasn't the only thing I caught. We washed the fillets in brine and rubbed more salt into them, rolled 'em up and stuck 'em with toothpicks."

Forest pulled on his mead and leaned back again, the distant light of the world's morning in his eyes. Ken said nothng. He was good at that, and Forest was often worth listening to, even if he did ramble.

"The old man found an industrial pickle jar that was nearly empty and we scooped out the pickles, julienned them and used them in the rolls. I might have told this a bit out of order, but anyway we kept the pickle vinegar and covered the bottom with rock salt. Stacked the mops around the jar till the layer was complete. Then we covered that with more rock salt, and cloves and pepper and even a bit of cinnamon. Then we did it again. And again, and then the jar was full so we added vinegar till all the fish was covered, and closed it, and put it in a cool dark cupboard for a fortnight."

He sat up and looked at Ken.

"What do you reckon happens to fishbones in vinegar, Ken?"

A grin spread across Ken's face. He wasn't as uneducated as his manner suggested.

"They dissolve?"

"Bingo. It's dead easy to do, just make sure you get all the scales off, or they'll float off in the jar. Don't skin the fillets, without the skin the mops'll start to disintegrate. Pickles, olives, spices, whatever you think will suit his palate."

---

The next time he had scheduled down-time, certain that only the most dire of emergencies would call him to serve, Ken and Scott took their kit down to the dam with the spotted perch. 

"Why are we _here_, dad? These ones aren't good eating."

"Aren't they?"

Ken had cheerful mischief all over his face. It was infectious and Scott couldn't wait for his dad to share whatever he'd discovered. 

With plenty to eat and the monster from the deep long since converted to fish and chips, the little devils were fat and fearless, and the morning netted them a baker's dozen.

Ken set up a trestle table with a tub of water from the dam, and cracked the esky. For the first time in Scott's life it didn't contain beer. There was lots of ice, as usual, but also big jars and a huge bottle of vinegar. They set up and industriously cleaned the fish. Ken was pretty handy with a knife, but he was proud to discover that his son wielded a filleting knife like a surgeon late for golf.

Rinsing the tub and refreshing the water further down where they hadn't disturbed, Ken staggered back with it and set it on the table. 

"Right, let's mop this up."

Scott recognised that special tone of voice used only for delivering a dad-joke and smiled, even though he didn't get it. Ken laid out two clean cutting boards and a jar of toothpicks, the fancy kind that are thicker with a point.

"Lets do this together. Grab a fillet and some salt." He opened a container of cooking salt and dumped a pile on the corner of each board. Make sure your hands are clean first. Give 'em a wash." 

They went together, coming back to wave off the flies and get started. 

"Rub the salt into the fish, not the skin side. No, don't skin it. That's it boy, good job. Nice and even. Now, Spices. We have pepper, cinnamon and cloves. You don't have to use 'em but these are what Forest suggested so I reckon we should do a few of each and give 'em a whirl, what do you reckon?"

Scott nodded enthusiastically, sprinkling liberally. "Now what?"

"Now we roll it up and pin it." He demonstrated, deftly rolling the fish into a tight cylinder and spearing it, glad for the practice up at Forest's place. His first attempt had _not_ been elegant.

Scott had a couple of tries, and finally he rolled and held it while Ken pinned it for him.

"Nice work, lad. Let's do some more, but first we put them in here." He poured rock salt into the bottom of a huge pickle jar and added some vinegar, placing his rollmop on its side and Scott's beside, the lid sitting on loose to keep the flies out.

On they worked, side by side for an hour, Scott's efforts getting firmer and faster. He also took over placing them in the jar, his small hands and nimble fingers well suited to the task. More rock salt and spices between layers. Halfway through the second layer Ken remembered he brought gherkins, and they wound around chunks of those. Then the jar was full. The last layer of salt went on, and they topped up the vinegar and closed it tight.

It took a while to wash the stink of fish guts off, and pack all their kit. Finally they walked home. Walking home together in silence wasn't new, but this time it was warm and companionable. Scott couldn't look at his dad. He didn't want him to see the tears that didn't quite fall. He'd never been so happy.
