People milled and faffed about. Forest was not famous for patience. He climbed up on a bin.

"You're adults, you don't have to do what I say. But in a couple of minutes that shelter will lock again and if you're still outside we aren't going to be here to protect you. Make your choices **now!**"

The milling stopped and people shuffled back through the door.

"Right," Dusty slouched up, grinning. "How do yer want ter handle this? Go up one end and do a walk-through?"

"That's not the worst idea I ever heard. Sophia, this is your stomping ground."

"Glen Innes is all over the place, I wouldn't know where to start. I don't think the bees have the operational range for it. Autumn?"

> _Lucky for you, we stocked the Galya with fast recon drones. We'll have go head back and let them out, but it's probably the best plan. There are six drones, six chargers, and a dozen batteries. The bees are good for high resolution, but not for distance._ 

"Boomer, reckon you can coordinate with, what's yer name, miss?"

> _Autumn. And if Forest has no objections I think we can get a sweep pattern going and feed your bots target queues. I'm not sure about a full cleanup, though. We have to get back to our own home. There's three hives and no Vanguard presence. Which isn't as bad as it sounds, but it's not great._

Another presence drone appeared, sprouting a battered hat shrouded in bobbing corks, over a grizzled but smiling face.

> _If you need more drones, Dusty has an industrial fabber in the trailer. The local grid's down but the truck can run it for small jobs. Dunno what yer need but we can recycle a bot.

The terminator spun to face them: "No, you get in the bowl!" The voice was grim and metallic, and yet it captured perfectly the spirit of a red M&M in rebellion. 

"That's what yer get for upgrading them," said Greaser, not batting an eye.

"That and leadership. Bruce, why are you dressed as the Terminator? You know it scares people."

"You said pick something appealing. I find this very appealing. I've never seen a kid look at _you_ and say"—the voice changed to an incongruous child-like pitch—"Woah! You are so cool!"

Forest shook his head. "Every time. Why are they all called Bruce, anyway?"

"Less confusing that way," quoted Greaser. "One mind, networked. It's all the same Bruce in there. And some idiot," she glanced at Dusty, "showed 'im 'is Monty Python collection."

"Is that why he didn't get bent out of shape when you offered to recycle a bot?"

"Exactly," interjected the nearest bot. I have plenty of chassis and if I want more I know where the fabber is."

"Right you are," said Forest, "Back to the Gally it is. Shall we?"

Dusty undulated to his feet. "Bruce, we're goin' for a walk. Can yer get 'em all greased up and loaded, mate? 'Ow long we gunner be, Forest?"

"You know where the showgrounds are?"

"Nup."

"Three blocks that way. Not a long walk but we had a bit of a firefight on the way in and we didn't clean up, so it's probably busy."

"Somewhere between half and one hour, Bruce?"

"Yep yep can do. Might even fix Lefty while I wait."

