Eloise leaned back against the wall of the caf, rubbing her eyes, then her whole head because it felt like it would burst. She was skimming through the reboot guide. One of a dozen volumes, supported by hundreds and hundreds of textbooks. 

Sheila brought her more coffee and a wrap. They still hadn't got flour right but unleavened bread seemed to work.

She leaned forward, head in her hands and muttered out through her fingers.

"I have a fucking degree, you know. A bach of mech eng. It wasn't just a bit of paper either, I designed shop floor automation and it bloody well worked."

"Yes? That's why you read this stuff so much faster than the rest of us. You don't know how grateful we are to have you explaining it to us."

"I feel like a goddamn child. There's so _much_.

> _You are trying to stuff the entire know-how of a technological civilisation into one head, Eloise. You aren't just standing on the shoulders of giants, you're trying to be all the giants at once. That you aren't failing miserably is an extraordinary display of intellectual prowess._

"Can you do it?"

> _...Yes. But I am bringing to bear considerably greater computational and storage resources than your entire civilisation. You're trying to do it with one organic brain._

Ellie decided to think about coffee instead of mortal limits. Several of the range mothers were listening intently to the exchange. Autumn turned over her presence drone, to face them.

> _Can I ask why you invited me?_

Rebecca spoke. "We're struggling. Time is of the essence. You could probably do something and you don't. No doubt there's some reason for that which we haven't figured out but to be honest some days I wonder what's the point when you can always do everything quicker and better. I kinda feel outclassed when Ellie looks at those hieroglyphics in the textbooks and just knows what it means... and she feels outclassed by you."

> _To be honest in return I don't really understand why you haven't asked for more help._

"We can't depend on anything we can't make, but even with it laid out for us in the books there's just so _much!_ We'll never get that many ducks lined up. And we can't ask _you_ for a space magic fix, that just _moves_ the dependency.

> _Your children depend on you. They will not always. Are you not proud of how they grow? Why should I think less of you, when every day you make me proud? You will find your own way. If you fall, I will see it. And then I will pick you up, dust you off and watch while you try again._

> _I do, however, have a question. You are right to reject things, you can't make, but you could ask Forest to buy a Class II fabber and a blueprint for a Class II fabber. Then you'd be able to make more Class II fabbers and you'd be truly independent. You'd still have to set up to power them, but that's the sort of project that will have the boys happily building steam engines and armatures._

They stared at her, flabberghasted.

> _You don't have to use it for everything, you know. You can just buy blueprints to fill gaps for things that otherwise require a huge industrial pyramid, like silicone sealant for example._

"That ... we'd ... no!" They started arguing, heated passionate examination. It went around in circles, from need to the existential threat of defeated purpose.

"You can't! If you solve all the problems then what are we _for?_ We might as well go back to the city, sit on the couch and watch TV!"

Eloise broke the deadlock by asking Autumn a question.

"Could we create our own blueprints? How does that work? Is it like when I would design machinery and produce 3D models and print them? The first one was slow but then we'd use it to make moulds and set up for production runs?"

> _You could use it like that I suppose. The kind of blueprints normally used are for complete, assembled complex machinery, but you could use it as a big 3D printer I suppose._

They argued for hours, but it was happier and it went somewhere. Eventually they asked Autumn not to suggest the Class II fabber idea to Forest unless things were dire. Eloise looked more than a little disappointed. She was warming to the idea of engineering with a literally out-of-this-world 3D printer.
