> To see what is right and not do it is the want of courage.<br>
> — Confucius

"Look, the upshot is they're incapable of minding their own business. They genuinely believe they're the duly appointed keepers of everyone's business, that not only is this their job and duty, but allowing anything else is unthinkable." He paused to collect his thoughts.

"They make rules and regulations with the information to hand and sometimes they make mistakes. That's fine, everyone makes mistakes. But say they approve a vaccine and thirty years later it's obvious there are widespread damaging side effects. You know how it works, if that got out there would be lawsuits all over the place and sooner or later the payouts would start. They _can't_ allow that. There would be far too many of them for even the state to support. So they have to stop it before it starts, and that means never admitting a mistake, never going back on a decision. Why can't they just say no to the payouts? Same reason, really. It's kind of circular. And that's the simplified version, before we consider the vested interests."

Someone started ranting about specifics. Forest cut him off.

"We know, and I thought I just pointed out that being right won't help because they _can't_ admit error."

The man tried to go on but was 'later-ed' by his mates, who didn't disagree but already knew what he wanted to say. 

Murch lost his 'Ken-doll' nickname when he swapped beer and frustrated ranting for renaissance parenting and an eerie, slightly unnerving calm. He was very much more involved these days. "Don't keept us in suspenders, Forest. Nobody takes that much run-up without a plan."

Forest was a bit derailed, so Ken helped him, "You said we can't ignore 'em and we can't fight 'em. You're not a lie-down-and-die bloke, so you have a plan. Come on, mate. Spit it out, it's nearly three and if I leave to go fishing with Scott before you get to the point I'll have to turn up at your place and drink all your beer while you tell it again.

"Righto, so here it is: push _will_ come to shove whether we like it or not. If we take the high road and wait till they start it, they'll be ready and we'll lose. We can't afford to let that happen."

This got a bit of debate, so he reinforced it. There was skepticism that such a policy would have popular support, a hope that it would be seen like entering the Vietnam conflict.

"People in cities think we're a a bunch of weirdos making a nuisance of ourselves, who ought to be brought into line. _All_ people thinks their way is the only sensible, reasonable, proper way. So they actually _approve_ of forcing their way on others. Plus, they think 'I have to pay taxes and take their shit, why should he get let off? It's not fair.'"

Shorty had a weird expression, bemused and concerned at the same time. 

Eric stood up and made for the door. "It is my official position that if I were to hear people actively planning treason I would be obliged to report it immediately. I will be in my office for the rest of the afternoon.

"What makes you think surprise will make _that_ much difference? They won't be surprised for _long_."

"Don't you blokes _ever_ talk to your wives?"

"What?"

"Surely you know about the recruiting the girls have been doing."

"Something about capability matrixes or something. So we have everything to make screws and stuff."

"Fuck me," said Forest. "You must be dynamite in bed. Or she has a thing for muscle. Where have you _been_ for the last four years?" The cheeky grin took some of the bit out of it, but Fletch didn't look pleased.

"You," said Murch, who was out of time and had no intention of failing his son, "have a plan. One that prevents a response. I'm in, and now I'm taking my lad fishing."

"Don't you want to know the details?"

"I'll get it from the briefing. Or the missus. Besides, it's obvious: a decap strike. After dinner I'll drop over to Oleksiy's and compare notes with him, but no doubt you and your digital girlfriend will pull some combat magic out of your bag of bullshit."

"Very smooth escape," said Forest. "Who told you I was going to get you to explain asymmetric warfare?"

"You did. All those questions. You're a straightforward bloke, it wasn't hard to see what you were thinking. Gotta go. You tell 'em about it."

Forest sighed, straightened up and addressed the room. 

"Alright then. Would have been better from him: I read about it, he lived it. But here's the gist: "If you can't win a fair fight, don't have one. Think of every dirty, underhanded trick you can, and use all of them."

"Very Art of War, but how do we apply it?" said Shorty. 

Forest noticed no-one was challenging his baseline argument; they seemed to accept the necessity. That was good, very good considering that was he was suggesting was flat out insurrection. He'd have to test their resolve. Or maybe get the ladies to do that. It was a people thing, not really his strength. He shook the thought away. 

"Before I get to that, I wanted to say that the idea of striking first really bothers me, ethically I mean. I don't like it, so I've given this a lot of thought. Here's how I think it will play out. At some point the state with try to put us in our place. It will do that by trying to cut off something we need. Probably they'll freeze accounts, lay charges and try to make arrests. A handful of cops will turn up. You may remember they already sent a patrol car, Sophia and the kids charmed them and sent 'em back to town."

There was scattered laughter, the incident had made the gossip rounds.

"Next time there will be a dozen of them. If we don't roll over things will escalate sharply and we'll get a SWAT team. Which will get a nasty shock when it runs into the ground team, but _that_ is the point of no return. Once that happens it's on for young and old, with a short window to act, before they realise we planned for this."

"If it's a short window, how much can we possibly do?"

"Without prep, bugger all. But not _starting_ the fight doesn't mean we can't _prepare_ for it. If everything's already in place, half an hour is plenty."

A bloke at the back whose name eluded Forest said "So what kind of prep lets you take out a whole fucking nation in half an hour?"

> _Finally, a good question._

"This is Brisbane," said Forest, waving a hand dramatically. A holographic map blinked into existence behind him, hanging in the air exactly where he pointed. "Brisbane is thirsty. Water from Wivenhoe dam..." which blinked brighter twice "is pumped to the processing station at Mt Crosby..." a map marker appeared with an audible pop and blinked twice "from which it flows down a whopping big pipe to Brisbane. The dam is manned and monitored. The treatment plant is protected. The forty kilometres of pipe are not."

The map zoomed out.

"These are various power stations. The distances aren't to scale because they're big. Same story." 

This time the map zoomed in. 

"This is Port of Brisbane." It was surprisingly big. It blinked twice.

"This is a bloody big tank full of oil. This one is full of petrol. This one is diesel." Circles on the map blinked in order. "Fuel is a bit harder. There are no pipes, fuel is distributed with trucks. So it has to be the tanks. On the other hand, once these are burning that's it for the port. Game over."

"If the pipes, wires and tanks were all taken out at the same time, Brisbane would need outside help to survive. If key roads were also cut, that would be the end of it. This would also have the highly desirable effect of severely hampering deployment of forces."

He let that sink in.

"I will start with the port before _anything_ else happens. In the absence of anything else happening, most of their disaster teams will respond, and with any luck they'll send people to defend it, as though that would do any good after it's burning. Once they're all over that side, we cut the major roads by collapsing overpasses. As General Tacticus says, if the enemy has an impregnable fortress, see he stays there."

He was interrupted again: "How the hell will you get in and out? You have to do all three, I used to drive past there, it's got a razorwire fence and guards."

"OK, now we're getting into the nitty-gritty. Two comments, first it's a good question and I hope you all think about it. Second, my answer is in the notes. Come up with your own answers first, and then we'll combine all the half-arsed plans into one and look at the problems. Like we do with any project."

He resumed.

"The choice of the port as a first target is tactical. Police and emergency services will converge, and once they're all where we want them we can cut off their return, moving out from the port cutting connecting roads as we go. This will radically reduce the size and quality of force available to contest us."

"A tactical retreat then?"

"That's what it will deliberately look like. But most of you won't be there, I'll just make it _look_ like a manned attack."

"And where will we be?"

"Out of the city, well out of sight, cutting highways."

"They have cameras, you know."

> _You have me, you know._

Dark laughter.

There was a hand up.

"Yes, Shorty?"

"Good leverage but it will take all week to visit all those pipes and towers."

"Site visits will be well in advance to place remotely detonated charges discreetly and test signal. We will probably need repeaters for a lot of sites. This is why you won't need to be in close to the port."

"Why do we need to be there for the freeways, then?"

"Traffic control. Can't be dropping overpasses on people, it's bad PR."

More dark laughter.

"What about ECM? Or interception? Not _all_ of them are useless or city bound."

"Good questions, Shorty. Point to point comms with non-visible lasers, hence repeaters. Lots of drones. Some of it is still subject to assumption checking. Autumn for details, not now."

Forest cleared his throat and went on.

"After the city is a hot mess we will remotely set off charges at intervals timed to simulate pairs of demo teams heading out along the pipes and cable routes. Depending on what we can get together we might even autopilot vehicles along those routes."

"Overpasses are incredibly robust. You'd need bloody big charges to bring one down, and there's a _lot_ of them. I'm concerned this would be noticed. You'd get away with one or two, but so many and the chances of detection are high."

"OK fine. I know you'll all be shocked to discover than I make mistakes. That's why you're all going to think about it and improve the plan. Also, 'bloody big charges'? Aren't you the guy who runs artillery day? You sure look like him."

"Har har har. They have to be small or you can't expect no-one to notice. Deploying them also worries me for more or less the same reason."

Forest appeared to listen to something, then said "We have charges that will fit inside existing fittings. The downside of this is we'll have to do a lot of city maintenance to keep them from doing it themselves. We'll have to case the regular maintenance then use identical vehicles with the same plates and visit right after they leave. Autumn's preparing that. Bear in mind that we are deliberately choosing targets that are not regarded as targets."

"Not _yet_ regarded as targets!"

More dark laughter.

"Right, lucky for you scoundrels, while I've been bending your ears Autumn was on the blower to your better halves. Your kids are in bed or doing their homework, and dinner is on its way after which they ladies will be making their own presentation. While they're on their way, I want you to think about this: we have five targets, not one. Or possibly three, it depends. Darwin is a joke, Tasmania wants to secede anyway and might even join in the fun, and Adelaide isn't a big threat. Perth may as well be another country anyhow."

The girls turned up. Then the _real_ planning began, ruthless and thorough. These girls were defending their children's future and there was no mercy in them. They thought _far_ into the future. In their strategies were layer upon layer of deception and misdirection, branching contingencies that considered two competing dances of logistics in space and time. Forest realised they had _read_ his battered old copy of Art of War. _All of them._ They were liars with action, sneaks and cheats and all in cahoots. He'd once wondered whether Sun Tsu ever had time for a wife. Across the centuries, it seemed like he had twenty-six concubines. It was more than a little disturbing.

He sat in the corner, wondering what he'd done and suddenly not trusting himself to pull the trigger.

> _Give it up, Tiger. You always said you just carry stuff and dig holes._
