Sophia sat at her desk, reclining in her boss chair with an assessing expression, peering at Eric from half-lowered, almost hooded eyes.

"Another transfer request. I thought they liked it here. I know the man. He seemed more than happy."

"It, ah, his wife thought of it. It's a secondment, not a permanent transfer."

She sat up.

"OK, Eric, I know you aren't stupid and you don't seem concerned. So what exactly are they up to?"

He looked nervously around the room, eyes falling on various places she knew he regularly swept for listening devices.

Dots connected like falling dominoes in her devious mind and her mouth twitched toward a smile. She let him suffer for a few more seconds, then chuckled.

"Oh thee of little faith. For the record, Autumn tells me you found all but two and she suborned those."

"Why didn't you tell me!?"

She tilted her head, giving him time to catch up.

"Oh, of course. If I found _all_ of them it would be noticed. Most but not all, they think they've got you."

"Autumn, would you mind giving him a quick demo. As a transcript on his augs, so he can see what you're doing. Tell me when to start."

> _Start now._

"What they hear isn't always what I say. For example, I am a naughty girl who's planning to take over the government."

In real time &mdash; literally as she spoke &mdash; text flowed on Eric's augs.


```
I'm sure they hear every word I say. 
It doesn't matter, I am a naughty girl but 
only with the outfits I've been buying.
```

"Fine," said Eric. "It just makes me nervous. I missed some. How do you know Autumn got everything?"

> _There's a reason the kids like saying "Not a leaf shall fall". I've co-opted every last transmission capable device in the valley as a security measure. Don't let that stop you from doing your job. If I ever have intel I can't figure out, I will certainly share it with you; there's a non-zero chance you'll have the one extra fact we need. I haven't mentioned it till now because I didn't want to reduce your diligence. Or make you feel superfluous. Outclassed in some ways, but you are not irrelevant. Apart from anything else you have a better feel for how our friends at the signals directorate will think._

"Silly question, why haven't you suborned the directorate computers?"

> _They're surprisingly competent, if a little stone-age. Everything is air-gapped. Even the voice calls are converted to analogue, band-pass filtered to human hearing frequencies and brought in via speaker and microphone; literally air-gapped. And I see where you got your professional paranoia: They reboot it daily from a read-only volume._

"Fine, but paranoia is my duty. Boss, let's get some coffee and talk a walk."

Outside was crisp in the early August afternoon. They stopped in the cloak-room where Sophia put her armour on and Eric collected his gun-belt.

"It's so different. Four years in and it's still weird everyone being armed."

"What's weird is kids learning heavy weapons handling from their fathers while the mothers' club watches. And have you seen how people react to bees these days?"

"Talking to them like they seriously expect to be heard and understood?"

> _It's not an unreasonable expectation._

"What's interesting is how safe bees make people feel, even when most of them are the honey-producing kind."

They strolled along the road for a hundred metres, then clambered up the pine side embankment to a pig-trail. 

"Come on then, loyal but paranoid minion. Spill the beans. Why are so many people who love it here, people whose children are _not_ going to like the city, moving back there? One or two with dying parents, sure. But what's with the exodus? Alright, half a dozen isn't quite an exodus, but in the same month? I won't be the only one to notice, either."

Eric paused, one foot on a storm-fall tree.

"I imagine you've had Forest's speech about the difference between self-reliance and self-sufficiency?"

"Four times now. It worries him."

"He's not the only one. I mentioned it came from his missus, right? So the kids worship Forest and Oleksiy, with the ground team not far behind. They get in their mothers' ears about it, and you ought to know better than most that men rule but women decide."

"Don't let Forest hear you use that word!" Mischief danced in her eyes.

"Righto smarty. Point is that the kids convinced the girls and they thought about it with adult brains and university educations. It isn't Forest the state ought to worry about, it's the valley mothers club. There's thirty of 'em, at least half are well educated. The other half aren't stupid, and all of 'em like it here. They like how their kids are, even if it's sometimes a bit weird when they do things like black-ban flour."

"And the fact that they like it here causes them to leave, how?"

"It's complicated."

"Make it simple."

"OK, they're recruiting."

"What's complicated about that?"

"They can't just place a job ad. Didn't I just explain they're well educated with plenty of time to think? They know how important it is the state not realise what's happening here. They _know_ this is a kind of rebellion. Not just breaking a law, actively seeking to subvert the system with a long term view to bringing down a state before it recognises them as a threat."

"_That_ is what they talk about at the range meets? That's not what I've heard there, and I'm not _always_ with the students."

"Not all the time. Sometimes they talk about gardens, or kids, or whose husband's hurt, or his... recovered enthusiasm." 

Sophia giggled, remembering when the Shorty tale did the rounds, mostly spread by his very satisfied wife.

"But sometimes they plan global politics? Don't they know that's done by old men in smoky rooms?"

"The old men may be in for a shock."

"So tell me about this secret rebellion recruitment drive. What exactly is the mothers' club plan for world domination?"

"Well, basically they've decided that Forest is an eccentric genius who doesn't finish projects&mdash;"

"Accurate."

" &mdash;who accidentally built a slice of heaven, and they're going to bake the whole pie."

"Bake the whole pie."

"Remember when he fretted for days about how to make screws."

"Yep?"

"It's piecemeal. He won't live long enough to finish, and we can't wait. But they understood what he was worried about. They made a list. Then they split into teams and drew an org charts and more lists. And got back together and compared lists, had a huuuuuge argument and eventually created a project plan. From which there were more lists, apparently with a dependency chain. Through all this they had a lovely time asking Forest exactly the sort of questions he frets about."

"Are you telling me the mothers' club has a comprehensive plan to save civilisation?"

"Yes. No. Sort of. They had the start of one. Except strictly speaking they're trying to _prevent_ civilisation. That word means "formation of cities" and what we have here is society _without_ centralisation. It's the exact _opposite_ of civilisaton. At any rate, Autumn joined in and made Forest buy documents from the Reboot catalogue and hand them out."

"Made him. That I wish I'd seen. I didn't think anyone but Trixie could _make_ Forest do anything."

"They do have an interesting relationship, that's certainly true. Anyway, apparently we aren't the first people to go through this and there are _manuals_ for where to start and the order to do things. So they've been busy reading and thinking some more."

"I do _not_ believe that Autumn was unaware of what they were up to. I wonder why she didn't lead with that."

> _They weren't ready. And then they were._

Autumn's cheeky voice crackled out of Eric's radio.

"And these manuals tell you to recruit?"

"No, they tell you what you have to do. The ladies identified skill gaps, and decided to fill them. By recruiting. It's quite interesting, there are things you have to do that you don't even need. You do them to preserve skills."

"This would be Forest's Roman Pot Syndrome?"

"The remedy, yes."

Eric stepped up onto the log and glanced along the other side for snakes before moving on. Weaving through the tangle of rotted fallen trees and native sedge, Eric marvelled at how easy the kids made it look. 

"Native habitat," he muttered, wheezing a little with exertion as they climbed the slope,refusing to slow. Sophia heard him but was too busy controlling her own breathing to respond. Both of them knew it was faintly ridiculous pretending they could flit through the brush like latter elves, but if a bunch of kids could do it just for fun...

Their pace slowed at brightening light from the clearing Forest called his industrial area. Dropping to a walk neither of them would admit to being breathless.

"How does he do it?" muttered Sophia.

"Do what?" The loud, cheerful voice of a man whose stupid experiment had just worked. There was a loud bang and bits of metal flew into the scrub. Forest stared after them, not deflated but less ebullient.

"One step at a time," Eric economically spoke to both of them at once.

"What's today's bit of mad science?"

"Couple of things. Temperature controlled furnace serving as a carburiser. Metallurgy, basically. Needs work but it's obviously _going_ to work. To what do I owe the pleasure? It's not a crisis or Autumn would have me gearing up."

"Sophia was asking me about all the people leaving."

"And you brought her to see me? That's the range mothers. And good on 'em, I knew they'd figure it out eventually. It's just a matter of knowing where your bread's buttered."

Sophia batted her lids disingenuously and pursed her lips. "Interesting choice of words for a valley where there's no bread. Metaphorically _or_ literally."

"I meant&mdash;"

"I know what you meant. Have you been giving people your manifesto or something?"

"No? And yes, kind of. I know you understand. He bullet pointed on his fingers. One, everyone's happy here. People know where they are and who they are and why they are. We're off the charts well-fed and the kids are thriving. Unemployed isn't a think, people see what's needed, do it and then have a good time. Or have a good time doing what's needed. Two, we're self-reliant but not self-sufficient. We're land-locked so when the state eventually decides to control us there _are_ things they can cut off. Three, Autumn's books are nice but actual experience is better, and we have a lot of gaps."

He stopped for breath, but long experience told Sophia to wait, he wasn't done.

"Even if I did set 'em up to see it, those girls are smart, and holy cow do they mobilise when they think it matters."

He looked at Eric. "Maybe you should set up a Ladies' Ground Team. We could _scare_ the antithesis off."

Sophia gave him the stink-eye, since his face said he was waiting for it, but she didn't really mean it. She was still waiting for the punchline.

"Right, so the short version is this: they've seen a better way, they like it, they want it for their kids, and they know the government will take it away as soon as it realises it can't control people who don't need it. They were _listening_ when I said we're not self-sufficient, so they decided to fix that. At that point Autumn got all bossy boots on my case and we bought a printer and the books and handed out copies. Looks like they read 'em."

"And so," Sophia finished, because Forest could take hours on his favourite subject, "There is a diaspora of people with a shopping list for other people."

"Yep," said Forest," mildly annoyed at being TL;dr'd.

"You wouldn't believe it," added Eric, "One of 'em is a psych graduate who didn't like HR. In one hand they have a shopping list. In the other they have a personality profile. And a list of tells and trigger questions for interviewing people who don't know they're being profiled. Oleksiy helped them with it. Apparently it's an operational skill."

"For a builder?" Forest's face was a picture of innocence.

"For a semi-retired professional, smartarse."

"What kind of people are we recruiting?" Sophia tilted her head. "People with skills, obviously, but they have to be people who will _get_ this place just from a description. Otherwise how would you get them out here?"

Eric and Forest both looked at her, intrigued and pleased but not totally surprised by "we".

"Haven't asked, but the parts I have seen were meticulously planned. And those girls are deadly serious. I don't doubt they will do _whatever_ it takes, scheming pack of Mata Haris they are." His tone belied the words, laden with respect.

"OK great. But you two, tell me what sort of people _you_ think we need. Running this place would be awful if it didn't run itself. Nobody talks orders, none of you will do anything unless you think it's a good idea and in the community interest. Or fun."

They spoke over each other three times. Each gestured for the other to go first, then Eric said "Tell us what you think, Forest, and I'll add anything I reckon you left out."

"OK, why am I here?"

Sophia looked at him, then up at the sky, down at the ridge, thought about the time of year and decided it was half past three. It crossed her mind that she'd probably somehow just validated whatever he was about to say, but she held her tongue and let him prepare his own answer. 

"One sec, I'll just let the office know we won't be back any time soon and they can just close up when they're done."

> _I can do it if you like._

"Thanks, that would be great."

"Alright then, why don't we go say hi to her majesty and I'll put some tea on."

They did, but Trixie wasn't there. Forest built a small fire outside while talking to them. Sophia recognised the pattern he used. It was the same way the kids all did it. She decided not to tell him they were faster. Unhurried was Forest all over. 

"So I imagine I've told you the cane-harvester story."

"Four hundred times."

"No. Shush Eric, he was talking to me."

"My father grew up on his father's farm. They grew cane. In those days, they cut it with a cane knife, which is basically a short machete with a wide blade and a hook on the end." Autumn's presence drone threw up a life-sized cane knife in shimmering lilac, rotating slowly. Probably this was so Forest didn't stop to find a pen and paper and draw one.

"Cane knives became farm-built tractor implements." The image morphed, supporting his tale. "Farm-built became commercially made tractor implements. Then there were purpose built harvesters." A man appeared beside the implement-festooned tractor. They shrank and moved to one side while a cane harvester shimmered into being. It was recognisably the same, but more integrated. And bigger.

He looked at her and interrupted himself. "At the end of the seventies, eighty percent of global cane-harvester manufacture happened in our town. But the cane-boom ended when Europe starting dumping beet sugar on the market. All the people who took on debt to be in a boom industry went broke. Banks got the farms, corporations bought 'em from the banks for a song, and then it was all run by accountants."

The billy went on.

"That was when everything went to shit. The supermarkets owned most of the farms and dominated cane-growing. That let them take over the sugar mills. Then they were setting prices for the independent farmers. It's called channel capture. Cory Doctorow called it enshittification but he was talking about Amazon and eBay. It was much later that I realised enshittification also works for bricks and mortar, and that I'd already seen it in action. In the eighties Coles and Woolies had much smaller stores that mostly sold packaged food. People got their greens from a grocer and meat from a butcher. Supermarkets were cheaper till the grocers and butchers were gone, and then they weren't."

"And that's why you&mdash;"

"No. At the time I just thought greed was the problem. I didn't realise it was systemic. I was young and strong and every time I got into debt bullshit good luck sorted it out for me, so I didn't learn anything."

The water boiled. He lifted the lid and put tea in, swirling it and seating it close but no longer on the flames. Chipped enamel cups were set out, awaiting some hidden signal.

"Harvesters got bigger and bigger because the accountants wanted to reduce headcount." 

A progression of ever large units appeared like a litany of greed. About halfways through the progression Autumn added Cane behind the harvesters. It really brought out the scale. The last one was a monster.

"That thing is _huge_. How the hell did they transport them?"

"With a police escort. Even just a spare tyre cost half a million dollars. Nineteen-ninety dollars, too."

Eric whistled and said nothing.

"So you're right. It's a monster. It's so heavy that even with those huge wheels it compacts the clay pan two metres down. That cocks up the drainage, and you get root rot. Fungus will wipe out a whole crop."

"You look like you're waiting for me to connect the dots. You may have to spell it out." She was interested in spite of herself. There was always a point to these rambling tales.

"To fix the drainage you need a dozer with a deep ripper. It's a sort of plow that goes down a long way."

He paused, looking expectantly at them.

"OK?"

"Now you have _two_ big expensive machines. It's _stupid_. Even if you don't care about anything but money, it's just stupid to make the machine that big. If you had two harvesters half the size&mdash;" he did the same finger counting of bullet points. "You'd have the same headcount. You'd have less wear due to higher relative material strength. Cheaper manufacturing from larger runs. Half the spares inventory because they need the same parts. Cheaper parts because larger runs. Parts more widely available because they're less expensive so dealers can keep them in stock. Less down time because if one machine breaks the other keeps going. Staggered maintenance. No police escort for transport."

"So why don't they make smaller harvesters?"

"Corporations treat each other just like they treat people. Why would the machinery company sell two mid-size harvesters when they can sell a giant harvester and a dozer? And the idiots running the supermarkets don't even realise what I just told you.

Anyway, when I figured this out I realised there was something wrong with the world. I didn't know what exactly, but I started trying to figure out what."

"And _that&mdash;_"

"Yep."

"Right."

Forest rose, and pulled a hank of string from his pocket. It had a loop on the end. He put it through the handle and the end of the string through the loop, pulling it tight. Then he stepped away from the fire and began to swing the billy. In circles over the ground at first, faster and faster till it was a little Ferris Wheel, then back down smooth as you like. He set it next to the cups, took the handle with a rag and poured their tea out. The sun dropped below the tips of the trees, it was definitely after four.

"So how does that translate into a mother's club world domination plan?"

"They're looking for people with skills and experience who think the system is broken and are unconsciously searching for a better answer. We actually do have an answer, and when they realise this every frustrated engineer who ever stormed out of a meeting hating marketers will see this place as the answer to their prayers." He did the finger thing again. "Right sized. Built to last. Built to be maintained. Budgets written in iron and sunlight."

His eyes got that faraway look they knew so well.

"When I was a kid I was making something. I wanted to etch a circuit board faster. I went down to the chemist and asked whether they had any concentrated nitric acid.

"Concentrated nitric acid is quite dangerous. You have to know how to handle it correctly. So the lady who was basically a shop assistant went and got the actual chemist, who wanted to know why I wanted a dangerous chemical. So I told him. Then he started about how it requires proper handling, so I recited the procedure for handling and safe dilution, adding that it was the procedure for concentrated sulphuric acid and if nitric acid was different I would take notes. Against the expectations of his staff and other customers he sold me a bottle and labelled it and we triple-bagged it for transit.

"So off I went and in went the board. It fizzed like mad for thirty seconds, then stopped. I didn't understand, and I didn't want to handle it repeatedly. Eventually I gave up and fished it out, rinsed it thoroughly and investigated the dull lead coloured coating. Scraping it revealed copper. It turned out to be very water soluble and then it dawned on me what had happened. Too successful. It reacted so fast it created a local supersaturate of copper nitrate which crystallised, and nitric acid won't touch a nitrate so the reaction stopped. I was so delighted I got on my bicycle and zoomed down to the chemist again, excitedly sharing my tale but waiting for him to figure it out. He did, of course, and seemed impressed that I had. He told me that some days he wondered why he needed his degree to sell nappies, and it was nice to feel like a chemist again.

"Those are the blokes they'll recruit. Chemists who'd like to solve our paint and preservative problems instead of retailing makeup. They have a place in the foundry too."

He dumped the coals into a brazier and built it up. It was close to five; in a few minutes the sun would pool molten gold that dripped through the trees and ran off the edge of the world. Trixie returned, with a basket full of rosemary and other herbs, and a chicken which she unceremoniously flung at Forest, who caught it with one hand. 

"I see we have dinner guests. You'd better get plucking."
