"Hypothetically, what if it _doesn't_ work?"

Shorty and Ken were sitting on the raised wooden deck that made roof maintenance a breeze on Ken's cottage. From there Ken watched his lad in the middle distance, lying on a log over the shallow end of the low dam, fishing for blueclaw with a net and some gristle on a string. Ken watched his boy, happy as Larry, catching his own dinner just because he could. With that realisation a weight lifted and Ken smiled without hesitation for the first time in... Shorty didn't know. Ever?

Ken sat up in his deck chair and looked straight at Shorty.

"Then we will die on our feet for our own reasons. And until then, _he &mdash;_" Ken gestured forcefully toward the dam, " &mdash; will be happy. Let 'em come. I will be waiting."

Shorty nodded, cracked a beer each and handed one to Ken.

"I meant after. No money and growing and making everything ourselves is also called subsistence. It's how medi&aelig;val peasants lived."

"You don't believe we can do it?"

"I'm not sure we can do all of it."

"We do it now."

"Someone drives into town for supplies a dozen times a week."

"Building supplies. Because we build a lot of stuff."

Shorty looked down at the home under them. It was an odd combination of stone and timber. half-metre thick mortared granite rock walls rose from where it cut into the slope. Two of them, half a metre apart, the gap full of scavenged styrofoam chunks and builders plastic that dropped into the trenched footings over the tarred rock. Outside the plastic. Uphill, a gentle berm directed groundflow aside from the buildind and the path leading to it. Built into the wall, a chimney rose with strange angled vents halfway from the ground. He knew what they were. Both men studied war and its craft.

"I still fret about what happens when there are no more trips to town."

"I don't," declared Ken, "There's nothing there I want."

He looked down at the home he'd built. The stonework emerged from the hill where it nestled, a cottage in a cave almost. From the grotesque it emerged into the light. Floor-frame became deck, massive beams cut from whole trees cantilevered out as the ground fell away. Partly canopied, it had a sense of soaring, like it belonged among the tree-tops. His boy loved it and would sit with his legs dangling in the warmer months. The whole building was a declaration.

He looked across at the top of the Forest's chimney. Smoke curled out of it. Given the time of day, the man was probably curing meat, or getting ready to do that. Ken said as much. 

"We should go see whether he wants some help."

When they got there many hands were already making work light. The long-house doors hung wide, sections of the roof lifted to let light in. Half the range mothers were there, making preserves from boxes of citrus fruit. Forest and Oleksiy were chatting seated by a half a lamb that Forest periodically turned over the firepit. Despite the smell of cooking meat it was obvious it would be hours before it was ready. Others cut tomatoes or onions, filling earthen vessels that vanished into the coolroom depths.

Eric and Sophia pored over a diagram. She was planning a home. From time to time their debate grew animated, and Autumn's presence drone would fire up, the proposed sites and hypothetical works rendered in lilac, changing with the debate.

"Forest! Autumn says stringybark isn't that great in the ground."

"It isn't, but that's what we have."

"We also have pine, but she says that's worse. Much worse. You were telling me about Viking longhouses lasting a thousand years. What were those made of?"

"Pine. _Frozen_ pine. It's too warm here for pine to last like that."

"Oh. So what do we do?"

"Fantastic question. So far my best answer is 'granite' but mortaring requires calcining which we can't do yet."

"Calcining?"

"Making cement from calcium carbonate."

"Where do we get calcium carbonate?"

"Eggshells."

"I'm not sure we use _that_ many eggs."

"Or limestone. Mining."

"That is _way_ too far in the future for what I need. What can I do to make stringybark last better in the ground?"

"Tar it."

"Where do we get tar?"

"For your project just buy tarpaint from a hardware store. In the longer term there are other possible sources. You can make it from pine trees, for example. For the really long term we ought to plant ironbark and use that. 

"Oh! Those longhouses, possibly they charred the pine. What you do is char the outside of the timber. Rot is fungus eating sugar. Cellulose is a long chain sugar. But if you char it that changes the chemistry and the fungus can't get started. Use stringybark. Cut your pieces and char them. Build a big tub full of turps and soak the timber after you char it, then tar them."

"That sounds like a _lot_ of work, and very expensive."

"How far you go is determined by how far you want the timber to go. Thousand year longhouse, right. Also, _building another house_ is a lot of work. 'There's never time to do it right, but there's always time to do it again.' Are you in such a rush to move in that you need to cut corners?"

"Huh. No, I'm not in a rush. But that is a _lot_ of turps."

"It's cheaper in big drums."

"It _stinks!_"

"Use linseed oil then."

Sophia looked thoughtful. She liked the scent of linseed oil, it took her back to her grandmother's house. They returned to their plotting, trusting that an answer of some sort would be found.

Ken found a place by the fire. As Forest turned the carcass he sliced cooked pieces into a trencher, setting it near the heat with a little spiced oil and a cover so it wouldn't dry. His boy wandered in with a bucket of crays, presenting them to the ladies and wandering up to greet.

"Hi Dad! I thought I'd find you here."

"You did?"

"Mum says it's where you belong."

"The kitchen?" he looked amused.

"The valley."
